
---

cgp: 53

title: Increase target level of stable holdings in the reserve

date-created: 2022-05-13

author: Ronan McGovern (@@Pinotio), Roman Croessman (@rcroessmann), Markus Franke (@MarkusBerlin)

status: DRAFT

discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/upcoming-cgp-increase-target-level-of-stable-holdings-in-the-reserve/3380

governance-proposal-id: 56

date-executed: NA

---

## Overview

The proposal introduces a reserve target allocation of 30% in low-volatility assets, specifically natural backed capital assets and DAI. The intention is to increase the percentage of stable collateral in the reserve to better protect against undercollateralisation of Mento stable assets in the case of additional crypto market crashes.

In the short term, this proposal has the effect of increasing the reserve target for DAI to 29.5%, which, together with the current cMCO2 target weight of 0.5%, leads to the targeted 30% in low-volatility assets. As soon as the community decides on suitable natural capital backed assets to be added to the reserve, DAI holdings are to be reduced, and even eliminated, as natural capital is introduced in sufficient quantities.

  

### Status

As the Celo community grows, there are increasing numbers of dApps, merchants, creators and community members making use of Mento stable assets. It is critical for these users that Mento stable assets retain their value relative to their fiat currency pegs. This is particularly true for community members for which the underlying collateralisation and security mechanisms of Mento are not apparent. Furthermore, all dApps and communities built on Celo have an interest in the strength of and trust in Mento stable assets.

As of May 13th 2022, Mento has approximately $104M in issued Meno assets (cUSD, cEUR, cREAL) (CeloReserve.org). This is currently collateralised by a reserve value of about $314 million of which:
* 94.4% are volatile crypto assets (CELO, BTC or ETH)
* 5.6% are natural backed capital (cMCO2) or stablecoins (DAI).

 
As shown once again in the current market turbulence, prices of volatile crypto assets including CELO, BTC and ETH can swing wildly and this puts collateralisation of the reserve at risk. For example, were crypto prices to revert to the levels of the so-called 2018 crypto winter, Mento stable assets could become undercollateralised. Such undercollateralisation scenarios are real possibilities for every stablecoin protocol, including fiat-backed stablecoins that due to their baked-in centralization entail counterparty risk, and have been modeled and displayed since before Mainnet launch in the [stability analysis](https://celo.org/papers/Celo_Stability_Analysis.pdf). We continue to believe that educating users about these risks while working on mitigating them further is of utmost importance and we would like to see even more resources put into both of these efforts.


### Allocations

Current Reserve Target Allocation

* CELO: 50%
* BTC: 29.5%
* ETH: 15%
* Stable value assets (currently DAI): 5%
* cMCO2: 0.5%

  

Updated Reserve Allocation per this proposal
* CELO: 50%
* BTC: 10%
* ETH: 10%
* DAI: 29.5% (with the goal to move into natural capital backed assets as soon as feasible)
* cMCO2: 0.5%

Note: With cMCO2 at a 0.5% target level in the reserve, this would put the short term low-volatility assets target at 30%. We propose to mainly reduce the allocation of BTC (by 15%) and only slightly reduce the ETH (by 5%) because of the negative environmental impact of BTC mining. 

  

### On the choice of DAI versus USDC as a stable-value asset

There are a number of factors to balance in choosing a stable-value asset:

1. Liquidity - can the stable-value asset be easily exchanged for other reserve assets with low slippage.

2. De-pegging risks.

3. Regulatory risks - to what degree is it possible that funds could be confiscated or rendered immobile.

  

It is important to note that one bad scenario for the Mento reserve would be if the 30% low-volatility allocation were to fully de-peg and be rendered worthless. However, there would still be the other 70% of the reserve. It is not just a matter of avoiding depegging risk, but balancing this risk against the overall risk of the reserve becoming undercollateralised, for example, the risk of undercollateralisation in yet another broad crypto market crash.

  

The choice of percentage is a judgment that aims to balance these two opposing risks (depegging of reserve stablecoins; undercollateralisation of the reserve to a crypto market crash).

  

On balance, we recommend that the regulatory and intransparency risks of USDC outweigh the liquidity benefits, and therefore recommend the choice of DAI. Further, DAI is already a CELO reserve asset and does not involve introducing a new asset. Also the fact that DAI is holding itself USDC as a collatera, is overcollateralized and more transparent than USDC makes DAI the better candidate for the Mento reserve.

  

#### DAI

Liquidity - DAI liquidity would most likely be obtained via ETH/DAI or WETH/DAI pairs. Pairs involving USDT (Tether) would be avoided in any trades to a lack of transparency around the collateralisation of Tether. Daily volumes on DAI pairs can be found [here](https://www.coingecko.com/en/coins/dai#markets).

  

Depegging risks - DAI is an overcollateralised stablecoin (data [here](https://daistats.com/#/collateral))

- There is more than $1 worth of crypto collateral for each $1 of DAI

- Notably, about 40% of DAI is collateralised by USDC, while the rest is collateralised mostly by ETH and WBTC type assets.

- MakerDAO (the protocol behind DAI) has an automated liquidation mechanism that results in collateral being sold if there is a drop in crypto market prices and collateral ratios drop below set limits. This liquidation mechanism can, and has in the past, failed, but the system has been around for multiple years and one might argue is reasonably tested.

  

Regulatory Risks:

- DAI is, besides the fact that it is backed to large extent by USDC, relatively decentralised and there is no central entity that custodies DAI. Collateral is kept in decentralised smart contracts.

- Possibly the largest regulatory risk to DAI is if USDC were to be suddenly withdrawn from the market by its issuers. As mentioned about 40% of DAI comes from USDC.

  

#### USDC

Liquidity - USDC liquidity would most likely be obtained via ETH/USDC, BTC/USDC or WETH/USDC pairs. Daily volumes on these pairs can be found [here](https://www.coingecko.com/en/coins/usd-coin)

  

Depegging risks - USDC is a 1:1 fiat-collateralised stablecoin run by [Circle](https://www.circle.com/en/usdc):

- Collateral is audited and, in parts, published online. Details on the exact collateral positions and their credit risk are missing. 

- USDC is custodial, i.e. collateral is held by centralised agents. The reputation and performance of these agents (Circle) influences depegging risk.

  

Regulatory Risks:

- Were regulators to undermine the current approach taken by Circle - especially in a manner that is sudden or unexpected - it is possible that USDC could de-peg. For example, collateral backing USDC could be frozen in bank accounts, reducing its value as collateral for USDC tokens.

- Were USDC to be rendered illegal, wallet addresses with USDC could be blacklisted by public and private organisations. This is a risk for any token, but perhaps especially fiat-pegged stable tokens because these most directly influence a government’s control of their own currency.

  
  

### On the medium term plan for increased natural capital in the reserve

This proposal specifies that stablecoins as collateral should be targeted only to the extent there is insufficient natural capital in the reserve to meet 30% of the reserve’s value

  

As governance proposals are introduced to increase natural capital in the reserve, the target for stablecoins is automatically reduced.

  

For clarity, the challenge of finding high quality (liquidity and stability) natural backed capital is not an easy one. It will require significant energy from the community to implement safely for the reserve.

  

### Summary on the choice of stable-collateral

It is fundamentally a hard problem to provide safe collateralisation of one asset (here Mento stable assets) with other uncorrelated assets (here BTC, ETH and CELO).

  

MakerDAO (issuers of DAI) do this by invoking an overcollateralised approach plus a liquidation mechanism to provide protection of the peg during a crash in crypto prices. The investment and testing of such a liquidation mechanism is significant and not trivial to safely implement, especially with volatile collateral assets and these models come with their own risk as displayed during the ["Black Thursday of MakerDAO"](https://medium.com/@whiterabbit_hq/black-thursday-for-makerdao-8-32-million-was-liquidated-for-0-dai-36b83cac56b6). With about 40% DAI collateral being in USDC at this point, these risks have been reduced.

  
To date, CELO has in essence adopted an overcollateralised approach as well, but without a high-confidence mechanism to protect against undercollateralisation in extreme market crashs. Thus, this proposal aims - in the short-to-medium term - to protect against this risk by adding stable-value assets to the reserve, i.e. assets that have a close correlation in value with the cStables issued by the Celo reserve.

  
All in all, DAI probably presents less regulatory risks than USDC (although DAI itself is 40% subject to USDC risks) and larger degree of transparency, whereas USDC provides easier reserve management owing to higher liquidity, plus more straightforward collateralisation, which likely reduces the risk of depegging. Either way, it will be important to move quickly to increase natural capital in the reserve (providing price movements with low correlation to BTC and ETH), in which case - under this proposal - stable-value assets would be automatically phased out.

  

## Proposed Changes

1. Set reserve targets to: 50% CELO, 10% BTC, 10% ETH, 29.5% DAI and 0.5% cMCO2
```
[
  {
    "contract": "Reserve",
    "function": "setAssetAllocations",
    "args": [
      [
        "0x63474c4400000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "0x4254430000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "0x4554480000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "0x4441490000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "0x634d434f32000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
      ],
      [
        "500000000000000000000000",
        "100000000000000000000000",
        "100000000000000000000000",
        "295000000000000000000000",
        "5000000000000000000000"
      ]
    ],
    "value": "0"
  }
]
```
  

2. Instruct the Celo Reserve to start rebalancing towards these target allocations with the usual restrictions around market liquidity in mind.

  

## Verification
- Confirm the proposal: celocli governance:view --proposalID <proposalID>
- After execution, confirm that AssetAllocationSymbols and AssetAllocationWeights in the Reserve contract were properly set: https://explorer.celo.org/address/0x9380fA34Fd9e4Fd14c06305fd7B6199089eD4eb9/read-contract
- Observe whether reserve trading slowly approaches the target allocation via [https://celoreserve.org/](https://celoreserve.org/)

  

## Risks

  

- Price, regulatory, custodial and counterparty risk as described in detail above.

  

## Useful Links

* [Accompanying Forum Discussion](https://forum.celo.org/t/upcoming-cgp-increase-target-level-of-stable-holdings-in-the-reserve/3380)

* [Celo Reserve Website](https://celoreserve.org/)

* [Stability WhitePaper](https://celo.org/papers/Celo_Stability_Analysis.pdf)

* [The Celo Reserve FAQs](https://medium.com/celoorg/the-celo-reserve-faqs-f3f7cbb1991f).

* [The Celo Expansion & Contraction Mechanism](https://medium.com/celoorg/zooming-in-on-the-celo-expansion-contraction-mechanism-446ca7abe4f)
