---
cgp: 82
title: EuropeDAO-Proposal
date-created: 2023-06-09
author: '@juancamp1987 in behalf of Europe DAO Members'
status: PROPOSED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-europe-dao/5443
governance-proposal-id: 112
date-executed: TBD
---
<!---
YAML ends
-->

<!---
Beginnning of the proposal
-->
# Abstract
This proposal aims to kick-off a Celo Europe DAO very first season, where we will test some assumptions and, in case success is achieved, we will submit a follow-up proposal for a second season. Success is defined as bringing visibility and ultimately on-chain activity (devs & users & traders) to Celo platform in general and/or Celo dapps using a targeted and resource based approach. Taking this into account, for season 0 in this proposal, we will be experimenting on many fronts that we believe to be impactful and determine key focus areas accordingly for the upcoming seasons.

The assumptions we are going to test in different regions in Europe are:

- Activities in universities bring visibility & on-chain activity to Celo and/or Celo dapps.
- Media exposure brings visibility & on-chain activity to Celo and/or Celo dapps.
- Web 3 conferences brings visibility & on-chain activity to Celo and/or Celo dapps.
- Hackhatons/ different events bring visibility & on-chain activity to Celo and/or Celo dapps.
- We can attract institutional investment by organising events directly focused on them.
- We can enlarge the community through social media/community tools.

In the meanwhile, we aim to create a region specific community using the following tools/activities:

- Social media accounts.
- Community tools.
- Crypto/other media exposure.

The focus will be determined by the regional teams and ecosystem members that will help match the right activities to the existing crowds.

# Goal
- Creating synergy across different stakeholders (Existing Celo dapps, potential devs, community members/users, investors etc)
- Determining what type of activities bring best results (visibility to be translated into on-chain)
- Creating synergy with already existing efforts from the foundation and leverage the existing Crypto Conference schedule in Europe as key coordination points for our efforts - building our campaigns and initiatives around the following events in the next months:

  - July 4th - ReFi Gathering Spain: https://burnt-gravity-ff2.notion.site/ReFi-Gathering-8a945a8261fd422db845cd6c63a49621
  - July 5-7th - EthBarcelona: https://www.ethbarcelona.com/
  - Mid-July - Organize Institutional ReFi events in Northern Europe
  - July 17-20 - EthCC: https://www.ethcc.io/
  - 30 Aug - 3 Sept  - ETHWarshau: https://www.ethwarsaw.dev/
  - 11 Sept - 13 Sept - DAPPCONN: https://www.dappcon.io/#home
  - End-Sept - Organize Celo EU Hackathon in Madrid
  - Nov 13-19 DevConnect Istanbul: https://devconnect.org/
  - December - Gather learnings and results to present Season 0 outcomes and potentially create a proposal for Season 1

# Expected output:
By building Celo Europe DAO, the qualitative outputs we have are, bringing large volume and/or impact Celo partners in Europe to work in synergy for a shared mission within the DAO, having their expertise & networks leveraged within the DAO and have benefits of the collective approach.

Our ultimate goal is to drive more on-chain activity to the Celo Network. However,  it is hard to measure this specific outcome. As a result, we’re proposing measuring key indicators that suggest an increase in on-chain activity, including:
- Attendance count to Celo Europe DAO digital and in-person events = At least 1500 unique participants.
- Projects participating in Celo Hackathons = At least 100 participants.
- Number of suitable projects referred to Celo Camp and other ecosystem programs = At least 10
We will produce a Celo Europe Ecosystem website that points interested stakeholders in the right direction, gains EU stakeholder buy-in and accelerate EU ecosystem development.
- Reach of the Celo EU website = At least 5k website visitors.
We’ll also set up specific website trackers for key activities. The insights of this will be shared in the final report.

# Amount Requested
We’re requesting a total budget of €204K in CELO equivalent value with each CELO value at 0.464 EUR = 0.5 USD for a total of 440K CELO, from which only 7% will be spent on admin and operations, and the other 93% will flow directly into ecosystem initiatives.

# Areas of Focus
Pls see [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pr8fj_q1DXdkrsrqxXIlX-3WyoAymAjWvpUNK7oItPg/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pr8fj_q1DXdkrsrqxXIlX-3WyoAymAjWvpUNK7oItPg/edit#gid=0) for detailed focus areas and the budget allocated for each item that is summarized above.

Transparency & Progress
We commit to posting monthly updates on our progress. We plan to measure success by developing a set of reports that we will share quarterly tracking the progress of:
- N. Community Development Over Time.
- N. Active Developers over time.
- N. Projects submitted in the end of the hackathon Reports will be shared in the forum.
- Forum posts with feedback request prior to initiatives.
- Forum posts with updates.
- Social media posts.
- Communicate our work in Celo Discord.


# Useful Links
Original proposal here: https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-europe-dao/5443

# Governance & Multisignature
The Celo EU treasury multisig is already created and the composition is the following:

| Role                            | Name                |                                            |
| ---                             | :---:               | :---------------------:                    |
| Head of Growth at EthicHub      | Joan de Ramón       | 0x5d1ed874ea2f4269c2e1D075973c7fdb7b39154A |
| Founder at Talent Protocol      | Pedro               | 0xD896b075F1C22C867d9747f33dF5631bC01C15AA |
| CEO at Kolektivo Network        | Luuk Weber          | 0x59095AD114D2Fc24077ccC77db7eD04B082af11E |
| Co-Founder at ImpactMarket      | Marco Barbosa       | 0x59095AD114D2Fc24077ccC77db7eD04B082af11E |

## Multisign address:      
0x4763a32d5256EDA615fd5c07b0e333C7Baa4D628

<!---
End of the proposal
-->

# Verification
Before approving/voting: Fetch the on-chain proposal and verify that the multisig address and approval amount match the approval call submitted to chain:

## Command
celocli governance:show --proposalID 112 --node https://forno.celo.org

## You should see:
    Running Checks:
       ✔  112 is an existing proposal 
    proposal: 
      0: 
        contract: GoldToken
        address: 0x471EcE3750Da237f93B8E339c536989b8978a438
        function: approve
        args: 
          0: 0x4763a32d5256EDA615fd5c07b0e333C7Baa4D628
          1: 440000000000000000000000
        params: 
          __length__: 2
          spender: 0x4763a32d5256EDA615fd5c07b0e333C7Baa4D628
          value: 440000000000000000000000 (~9.030e+23)
        value: 0
    metadata: 
      proposer: 0x8f51DC0791CdDDDCE08052FfF939eb7cf0c17856
      deposit: 100000000000000000000 (~1.000e+20)
      timestamp: 1686664301 (~1.687e+9)
      transactionCount: 1
      descriptionURL: https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/cgp-0082.md
<!---
This is the content of the mainnet.json file
-->

# Expected output:
[ { "contract": "GoldToken", "function": "approve", "args": ["0x4763a32d5256EDA615fd5c07b0e333C7Baa4D628", "440000000000000000000000"], "value": "0" } ]

<!---
End of the mainnet.json file
-->
