---
cgp: 001 - <Number>
title: Proposal 1 Title - <String>
date-created: 0000-00-00 - <ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
author: 'Celo User (@celouser) - <String, a list of the authors name(s) and/or username(s)>'
status: DRAFT - <DRAFT | PROPOSED | EXECUTED | EXPIRED | WITHDRAWN | REJECTED>
discussions-to: https://forum.link - <URL of discussion forum>
governance-proposal-id: 001 - <Number if submitted, or empty>
date-executed: 0000-00-00 - <ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) if executed, or empty>
---

<!-- Please view other proposals for an example on filling the above section. It is important the type is correct eg Number, String -->
 
## Overview *(please provide an overview of your proposal)*
 
- CGP - Celo Governance Proposal *(Pick a four digit number subsequent to the latest PR raised and name your file)*
 
### Status *(Please pick the status of your proposal, first status is always DRAFT)*

- DRAFT = Feedback collection
- PROPOSED = The governance proposal was submitted to the network
- EXECUTED = The governance proposal was executed on the network
- EXPIRED = The governance proposal expired
- REJECTED = The governance proposal did not receive enough support
- WITHDRAWN = The governance proposal is withdrawn before being submitted on the network
 
### Proposal Description
- Please provide a short description of the issue that motivates this CGP. It should indicate all parameters that are being changed and why doing so is important.
- Explain what benefits the enhancement this change will bring. To the extent possible, enumerate use cases affected by this CGP.
- Once the proposal is successfully proposed on chain, update this file so that the title number matches the proposal ID.
 
## Proposed Changes
 
Fill out the following template for each transaction in the proposal
 
1. Description of transaction 1
  - Destination: A human readable description of the address and method being called
  - Data: A human readable description of the transaction data
  - Value: How much CELO is being sent, and why?
 
## Verification
 
An explanation of how voters can verify that this CGP does what it intends to do. Can be left as “TODO” until the proposal is made. Include things like CLI commands to run and pointers to code.
 
## Risks
 
Highlight any risks and concerns that may affect consensus, proof-of-stake, governance, protocol economics, the stability protocol, security, and privacy.
 
## Useful Links
 
* Optional section
* Links to related CIPs or other documents (eg. if this is a proposal to point to a new instance of a smart contract that was updated)
