---
cgp: '168'
title: 'Budget Request: Prezenti Grant funding: Season 0'
date-created: '2025-02-27'
author: 'Wade @0xzoz , Maya @Maya-R-B , Aaron @aaronmboyd'
status: PROPOSED 
discussions-to: 'https://forum.celo.org/t/budget-request-prezenti-grant-funding-season-0'
governance-proposal-id: 211
date-executed:
---

# Budget Request: Prezenti Grant funding: Season 0

- **Receiver** Entity: Celo Governance
- **Status**: [FINAL]
- **Title**: Prezenti Grant funding Season 0 2025
- **Authors**: Prezenti (Aaron Boyd, Wade Abel, Maya Brown)
- **Type of Request**: Funding
- **Funding Request**: $335,000 cUSD

---

## Summary

This proposal is a request for a continuation of funding for Prezenti, enabling us to provide the only regular grass roots grant funding within the ecosystem at present. This proposal acts as bridging, seeking Celo Community approval to provide one grant funding round during Season 0  [the first half of 2025]. This will ensure the continuation of Prezenti operationally, offering grants to builders while working closely with the Seasons initiative to see where/how Prezenti might fit into the wider strategy in H2. This interim period covers the runway until [Celo’s Governance 2.0](https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-governance-seasons-a-conversation-about-governance-evolution-ahead-of-cel2-migration/10055) is fully established following the L2 migration and the introduction of Celo ‘Seasons’.

Prezenti is central to the essence of Celo. We are a steady foundation—stable, reliable, and committed to directing community funds toward visionary individuals and projects that embody thoughtful innovation. There has, and always will be a need for small/medium sized grants within a blockchain ecosystem. Prezenti brings this to Celo.

In our 2024 [retrospective](https://forum.celo.org/t/prezenti-2024-retrospective/9687), we highlighted the three phases of Prezenti, with 2025 identified as the year of "fusion."Below, we outline what Prezenti aims to achieve and support for the Celo Community in Season 0.

---

## **Motivation**

The Prezenti team aspire to continue offering grass roots builder grants to the Celo Community for Season 0 so there is some grant funding available to the ecosystem. Due to new initiated discussions around Celo Seasons, this proposal is for the first half of 2025 only and for one grant round. We plan to:

1. Continue to offer grassroots grants. Seeking an additional ‘Scale’ pool for 2025.
2. Increase collaboration with key stakeholders, including (but not exhaustive) the Celo Foundation, Regional Hubs, Celo Camp, Venture Capitalists.
3. Expand our reviewer team to reflect the increasingly cohesive and global nature within Celo.
4. Input into the Celo ‘Seasons’ strategy and support the changes for Governance 2.0 and the L2.
5. Help define and operate an Optimism-style “Grants Council” in conjunction with the Celo Foundation’s intents for ongoing Seasons

---

## Specification

### 1. E**xpanded Grant Pools**

Introducing a fourth grant category to our grant rounds, whilst continuing to administer these grant pools:

1. **Micro Pool** ($2,000): Early experimentation
2. **Pilot Pool** ($10,000): Prototyping and feasibility
3. **Growth Pool** ($25,000): Scaling and development
4. **NEW: Scale Pool** ($50,000): larger scale initiatives 
    
    ### **2. Global Collaboration**
    
- Continue to strengthen partnerships within the community, including **Foundation,** , **Regional Hubs, Celo Camp, Celo PG,** and others, by including additional stakeholders in our review and due diligence process.
- Collaborate with **VC funds** (to begin with [**Verda Ventures**](https://verda.ventures/) and [**0XLabs**](https://www.0xlabs.tech/)) to connect promising grantees with downstream investment opportunities.
    
    ### **3. Expanded Reviewer Team**
    

We believe it is essential now to decentralize aspects of Prezenti to incorporate flourishing initiatives within the Celo ecosystem to provide fresh, differentiated eyes on applications. With this, we have put the pieces in place to welcome 2 new review contributors:

- **Cristóbal Pereira Garretón** (cLATAM Lead) joined as a reviewer for Mint 2024, with plans for Season 0.
- **Ronald Nzioki** (Celo Africa DAO Program Manager) will join the review team for Season 0.
    
    ### 4. Strategy input for 2025 and beyond
    

Prezenti to actively participate in helping shape the grant offering of the new Celo Seasons. 

---

## **Metrics & KPIs**

During this interim period (Season 0), Prezenti will focus on the following metrics.

- Reporting: can be found [here](https://forum.celo.org/u/prezenti.grants/activity)
- Multisig Transaction Logs: can be found [here](https://remox.io/community/prezenti)
- Governance Engagement - can be found [here](https://forum.celo.org/u/prezenti.grants/activity)
- Grantee feedback  - post grant surveys
- % of projects completed
- % of active projects after one year
- Total blockchain transactions driven by grantees
- Additional funding secured by grantees
- Success stories highlighting transformational outcomes
- Bi monthly showcasing calls highlighting previous grantees as they complete their grants

---

### Current status

At the present time Prezenti has no funding to open any more rounds/distribute any further grants. The team is delivering on supporting 19 ongoing grants, due to complete by 31 May 2025 at the soonest.

If no further funding was to be secured then once these 19 grants had completed, Prezenti would begin to close its company and cease trading. 

---

## Timeline and Milestones

| **Season 0 / 2025** | **PLAN** |
| --- | --- |
| Jan | Business as usual - support ongoing grants. Budget from previous round. |
| Feb | Business as usual - support ongoing grants. Budget from previous round. |
| Mar | Launch Almond Round  |
| Apr | Close Almond round / start reviews |
| May | Finish review and begin KYC  |
| June | Grants activity - month 1 |
| July | Grants activity - month 2 |
| Aug | Grants activity - month 3 |
| Sep | Grants activity - month 4 |
| Oct | If no follow on  funding begin closing Prezenti  |

---

## Detailed Budget

We request a replenishment of the grant ‘pools’ and support funds with a top up from the Celo Community Treasury for Season 0.

| **Season 0**  | **No. of grants** | **Cost per Pool** | **Round 1** | **All Q** |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| *Admin* |  | *54,000* |  | *54,000* |  |
| *Contingency* |  | 10,000 |  | *10,000* |  |
| Micro | 3 | 2,000 | 6,000 | 6,000 |  |
| Pilot | 9 | 10,000 | 90,000 | 90,000 |  |
| Growth | 5 | 25,000 | 125,000 | 125,000 |  |
| Scale | 1 | 50,000 | 50,000 | 50,000 |  |
|  |  |  | **335,000** | **335,000** |  |

Due to the nature of grants, we need budget to be able to support ongoing grants past the June/July season change.

---

### **Payment Terms**

Upon approval, the total budget will be deposited to the Prezenti (2/3) Multisig in a single transaction from the Community Fund. From there, Prezenti will allocate to individual Pool SAFEs money for each round.

- **Prezenti ‘Master’** Multisig Wallet for receiving funds: celo:0xA5c9389A0Ce1bFe24FF883E761Ff313225C77D44

Grant ‘Pools’ Multisig Wallets:

- **Micro Pool**: celo:0xa0BfA96a40Cb3aEaD1a34CFFc1301226dBc5D2EC
- **Pilot Pool:** celo:0xdCc89C89c3705D90EebFF3db911CCefA8C0B8d5F
- **Growth Pool:** celo:0x3C9a27cd6d3CaF595aa5088001482664215f8Da7
- **Scale Pool**: to be created
- **Admin Safe:** celo:0x03344b9FCDdE6BE2FEF42876dB8fDc0696Ec688F
- **ETH Safe**: eth:0x03344b9FCDdE6BE2FEF42876dB8fDc0696Ec688F

---

## Team

The team remains unchanged, although roles and responsibilities have become increasingly  streamlined. 

**Aaron Boyd** - Prezenti Founder, independent validator operator, Celo PG Steward, 

**Wade Abel** - Prezenti Founder, independent validator operator, Celo Governance Guild, 

**Maya Brown** - Prezenti Founder, previous Celo PG steward, web3 grant proposal writer 

**Cristóbal Pereira Garretón -** cLATAM Lead.

**Ronald Nzioki** - Celo Africa DAO Program Manager

For more detail see our website: https://www.prezenti.xyz/about-us

---

## Additional Support/Resources

For more details, visit: [prezenti.xyz](http://www.prezenti.xyz/)

See our past alumni here: [Funded Projects](https://www.prezenti.xyz/projects)

Grant program history and information: [charmverse.prezenti.xyz](https://charmverse.prezenti.xyz/)

Our initial proposal: [Reopening of the Celo Community Fund](https://forum.celo.org/t/reopening-of-the-celo-community-fund/3475/7)

Our second funding proposal: [Prezenti follow-on funding request](https://forum.celo.org/t/prezenti-follow-on-funding-request-progressing-to-governance/5329)

Our third funding request (with Celo PG (2024)): [Prezenti funding 2024 H1](https://forum.celo.org/t/final-prezenti-h1-2024-celo-grants/7412) 

Our forth funding request (with Celo PG (2024)): [Prezenti funding 2024 H2](https://forum.celo.org/t/prezenti-h1-retrospective-h2-proposal/8140)