---
cgp: 92
title: 'Proposal for mobile first community in celo ecosystem and telecom'
date-created: '2023-08-08'
author: '@jeffpulver'
status: PROPOSED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/proposal-for-60-000-funding-to-support-a-mobile-first-community-in-celo-ecosystem/6313
governance-proposal-id: '123'
date-executed: 'TBD'

---
# Overview
* Celo Governance Proposal (CGP-0092)
* Mobile First Community Engagement
* On Chain Proposal

# _Proposal for 120,000 Celo (Aprox 60,000 USD) Funding to Support a Mobile-First Community in Celo Ecosystem_
This initiative aims to foster innovation, collaboration, and knowledge sharing in the rapidly evolving landscape of blockchain technology and telecommunications. As an entrepreneur, investor, and technology evangelist with a strong background in pioneering Internet Telecommunications, I am committed to creating an environment that propels Celo's mobile-first technology to new heights.


## Overview of the Project
The primary objective of this project is to establish a robust and dynamic mobile-first community in the Celo Ecosystem - bridging the gap between Telecommunication leaders and blockchain entrepreneurs. The $60,000 funding will be allocated to four key areas:

* **Sponsorship of VON: Evolution Conferences:** The Voice On the Net (VON) conferences have a long-standing legacy in the telecommunications industry, providing a unique platform for industry professionals and innovators to share insights and collaborate. By sponsoring VON events and meetups, we will bring attention to Celo's mobile-first technology and its potential applications, attracting a diverse audience of developers, entrepreneurs, investors, and telecommunications experts.
    * New York: November 1-2.
    * London: Dec 6
    * Palo Alto: April 9-10 (TBC)
* **Building Local Chapters:** Establish local chapters of the mobile-first community in strategic locations. The first local chapter will be: New York City.

    These chapters will act as regional hubs for knowledge exchange, mentorship, and networking events centered around Celo's technology. By encouraging face-to-face interactions, we aim to nurture stronger connections and partnerships among community members.

* **Bridging Blockchain and Major Telcos – Mobile Operators, Cable and Wireline.**
    * To drive adoption and collaboration, we will showcase the benefits of Celo's mobile-first approach and its potential to transform the telecom industry, we will build bridges for partnerships and integrations.
    * Identify opportunities for “pop up” side events around major telecom related conferences around the world.
    * Examples include:
        * [Mobile World Congress ](https://www.mwcbarcelona.com/)
        * [Pacific Telecommunications Council](https://www.ptc.org/) (PTC’24 in Honolulu)
        * [International Telecoms Week](https://event.internationaltelecomsweek.com/event/106d28e1-c9ae-41ee-a1ed-a6e26e7a50cb/summary) (Washington DC) – Where Telcos convene to re-negotiate international settlement rates
* **Highlighting Use Cases:**  Develop engaging content, case studies, and whitepapers that highlight real-world use cases of Celo's mobile-first technology. These resources will illustrate the practical applications of Celo in different industries, attracting more developers and businesses to explore its capabilities. When possible we will invite the use cases to actively participate at VON events.
* **Founder Office Hours:** Hold founder office hours to provide guidance and mentorship to founders focused on mobile first solutions.

## Budget 120,000 Celo (Aprox 60,000 USD)
* VON Conference Sponsorship: $40,000
* Side Events at Major Telco Conferences: $20,000

Reports will be provided following each event with the following:
* Budget Used
* Key TakeAways and Learning - opportunities & challenges
* Awareness Building - number of event attendees, number of email subscribers, number of leads.

**Note:** Budget will only be drawn if used for events. In the event that the full budget is not utilized, funds will be returned to the community fund.

## Expected Outcomes
We anticipate the following outcomes:
* Increased Awareness and Adoption: The sponsorship of VON Events and meetups and the establishment of local chapters will enhance Celo's visibility, attracting new users, developers, and investors to the ecosystem.
* Strong Industry Partnerships: Our efforts to bridge blockchain and major telco carriers will open opportunities for strategic partnerships, enabling Celo to integrate seamlessly into existing communication networks.
* Accelerated Growth: By showcasing compelling use cases, we will drive demand for Celo's mobile-first technology, accelerating its growth and long-term sustainability.

## Measuring Success
To ensure transparency and accountability, we will track the progress of the project based on the following metrics:
* Attendance and engagement levels at sponsored VON conferences.
* Number of established local chapters and active participants.
* The volume and significance of partnerships with major telco carriers. We will also provide support to others inside Celo when asked.
* Increased interest and adoption of Celo's technology, demonstrated through user growth, transaction volume, and developer activity.

## Conclusion
The proposal to build a mobile-first community in the Celo Ecosystem is a strategic initiative aimed at advancing Celo's vision and technology. With the $60,000 funding, we will sponsor conferences, create local chapters, foster partnerships, and highlight compelling use cases, thereby establishing Celo as a leading mobile-first blockchain platform.

I am excited about the potential impact of this project and invite you to join me in shaping the future of mobile-first technology within the Celo Ecosystem. Together, we can drive innovation, empower developers, and build a strong and interconnected community.

Thank you for considering this proposal. I look forward to the opportunity to discuss this project further.


## Governance
* **Jeff Pulver** is a prominent American entrepreneur, investor, and technology evangelist, best known for his pioneering work in internet telecommunications and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technology. Jeff has influenced public policy in the US in the area of Internet Communications. The Pulver Order, issued by the FCC in 2004 literally changed the way the world communicates by ensuring VoIP calls originating on broadband are not regulated as Telecom. As the co-founder and former Chairman of Vonage, he played a key role in popularizing VoIP services, enabling voice calls over the internet and disrupting the traditional telecom industry. Jeff also founded the influential VON (Voice On the Net) conferences, providing a platform for industry professionals to discuss the convergence of voice, video, and data over the internet. With a passion for supporting technology startups, he has been an active angel investor and has contributed to fostering innovative communication solutions and building strong entrepreneurial communities.
* **David Casey** is an entrepreneur and environmental advocate known for his work in promoting sustainable living and eco-conscious travel. David is: celo scout; director @ funding the commons; founder @ resource finance, NuMund; advisor @ Gane (MVNO for latam), hyphen.earth, and[ values.co](http://values.co/) , all three of these companies in celo ecosystem.
* **Ed Guy** has been in the mobile computing & intelligence industry since its inception working with both startups and well-established companies. He has had multiple successful exits as well as the founding team of Truphone for international roaming, CEN-AI for blockchain-based AI, and Omnicare for home health communications and product fulfillment. He also worked with Bellcore/Telcordia as a VoIP consultant, and Pulver.com where he was the CTO responsible for the build and launch of FreeWorld Dial Up.  He also designed and deployed a high-availability consumer VoIP system for a large North American telephone carriers. He has served as a VoIP lecturer to the Internet2 community and the FCC.  He holds over 30 patents, (nine US), authored three IETF RFCs, and was the technical talent on the 2004 ‘Pulver Order.’  Ed holds a Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Syracuse University; his doctoral research was in cloud computing.  He is a BSA volunteer and an avid sailor.

## Multisign
* **Multisign Address:** 0xA7AF94d898fc31A43D163201cE44b4Fa944a79EE
* **Threshold:** 2/3
* **Signers:**

|Role           |Name            |Multisig                                    |
|---            |:---:           |:---:                                       |
| Admin         | Jeff Pulver    | 0x51D0705A33D924F250a14720A69f7FD42a407B22 |
| Co-Admin      | David Casey    | 0x576edCed7475D8F64a5e2D5227c93Ca57d7f5d20 |
| Co-Admin      | Ed Guy         | 0xB03d63B5A2d6e88acCef8d4a005351528f271A0d |


## Verification
### Before approving/voting:
Fetch the on-chain proposal and verify that the multisig address and approval amount match the approval call submitted to chain:

### Command
* celocli governance:show --proposalID 123 --node https://forno.celo.org

### Expected output:
```
Running Checks:
   ✔  123 is an existing proposal 
proposal: 
  0:
      contract: GoldToken
      address: 0x471EcE3750Da237f93B8E339c536989b8978a438
      function: approve
      args:
         0: 0xA7AF94d898fc31A43D163201cE44b4Fa944a79EE
         1: 120000000000000000000000 (~1.200e+23)
       params:
         __length__: 2
         spender: 0xA7AF94d898fc31A43D163201cE44b4Fa944a79EE
         value: 120000000000000000000000 (~1.200e+23)
      value: 0
metadata:
     proposer:  0x8f51DC0791CdDDDCE08052FfF939eb7cf0c17856
     deposit: 100000000000000000000 (~1.000e+20)
     timestamp:  1691714930 (~1.692e+9)
     transactionCount: 1
     descriptionURL: https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/CGP-0092.md
```

## Additional Information

### About VON Conferences:
The VON (Voice On the Net) Conference was a series of influential gatherings founded by Jeff Pulver in 1997. These conferences played a significant role in advancing the telecommunications industry by focusing on the convergence of voice, video, and data over the internet. VON brought together industry professionals, entrepreneurs, investors, and technology enthusiasts to discuss the latest developments and challenges in Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technology and internet-based communications. The conferences aimed to foster innovation, collaboration, and knowledge sharing while promoting the adoption of VoIP and other internet communication solutions.

### About Jeff Pulver
Jeff Pulver is a prominent American entrepreneur, investor, and technology evangelist, best known for his pioneering work in internet telecommunications and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technology. As the co-founder and former Chief Evangelist of Vonage, he played a key role in popularizing VoIP services, enabling voice calls over the internet and disrupting the traditional telecom industry. Jeff also founded the influential VON (Voice On the Net) conferences, providing a platform for industry professionals to discuss the convergence of voice, video, and data over the internet. With a passion for supporting technology startups, he has been an active angel investor and has contributed to fostering innovative communication solutions and building strong entrepreneurial communities.
* Linkedin:[ https://www.linkedin.com/in/jpulver/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jpulver/?original_referer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F)
* Wikipedia:[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeff_Pulver](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeff_Pulver)
