---
cgp: '93'
title: 'ReFI DAO x CELO'
date-created: '2023-8-10'
author: 'John Elisson <je@refidao.com>'
status: 'DRAFT'
discussions-to: 'https://forum.celo.org/t/proposal-refi-dao-x-celo-onboarding-the-next-generation-of-talent-and-capital/6243/1'
governance-proposal-id: 'TBD'
date-executed: 'TBD'
---

# Abstract

Over the last 18 months, ReFi DAO has become the cultural home of regeneration in Web3. In the process, we’ve cultivated a pivotal insight into a mobile-first product and global coordination layer that could onboard the next generation of talent and capital into ReFi via Celo. This proposal requests up to 585,000 CELO (aprox. 267,000 EUR) from the Celo Community Fund for product research & design, building a global network of local ReFi communities, creating multi-lingual content, and hosting the first ‘Davos for ReFi’ Annual Meeting. This partnership will help position Celo as the ‘Ethereum for Impact’ for the next cycle and create a foundation for a mobile-first growth flywheel.

# Background

ReFi DAO emerged as a founder-led startup community in response to the rapid influx of talent inspired by the Toucan x Klima boom in 2021. Since then, and thanks to the support from Climate Collective, Celo Foundation, and Gitcoin, we have become the cultural home of ReFi for top founders, investors, and builders at the intersection of impact and web3. We’ve enabled more than 75 events in 58 cities, reached over 60k+ listeners, and served over 300 entrepreneurs, including:

- [Helena](https://twitter.com/HelenaMerk) and [Douglas](https://twitter.com/douglasqian) from Spirals met via ReFi DAO
- [Adrian](https://twitter.com/mr_adrianxyz) from [Senken](https://twitter.com/senken_io) rocked the first orb at [Kernel](https://twitter.com/Kernel0x) KB5
- [Gordon](https://twitter.com/g0rd0n__) and Courtney of [New Atlantis](https://podcast.refidao.com/episode/ocean-metagenomics-with-courtney-and-gordon-from-new-atlantis-dao)
- [Rez](https://twitter.com/0xRez) and [Stenver](https://twitter.com/stenverjerkku) before [Solid World](https://twitter.com/solidworldhq) was a thing
- [Kennedy](https://twitter.com/KennedyWNganga) as [Shamba Network](https://twitter.com/shambanetwork) got its feet

Some of the 32 VCs who we have supported with deal flow and insights include:

- [Tomer](https://twitter.com/TBariach) from [Flori Ventures](https://twitter.com/floriventures)
- [Ed](https://twitter.com/ejcwalters) from [Allegory](https://twitter.com/allegorylabs) and [Climate Collective](https://twitter.com/clim8collective)
- [Simar](https://twitter.com/simarsmangat) from [Magic Ventures](https://twitter.com/magicventures11)
- Jahed and Matt from [Cerulean](https://twitter.com/Cerulean_xyz)
- [Maex](https://twitter.com/maex242) and [Philip](https://twitter.com/pstehlik) from [Crane VC](https://craneearth.vc/)
- [Geoff](https://twitter.com/gham1lt0n) from [Variant](https://twitter.com/variantfund)
- Emma and Ethan from [Shine VC](https://twitter.com/ShineCapitalNYC)

You can see the full list of founders, investors and events, content and deals on our website: [refidao.com](https://refidao.com/)

# The Problem
Every blockchain relies on network effects for its’ success—the problem is most networks are heavily distributed and challenging to coordinate towards a single goal. Most ecosystems spend large 7-figure sums hosting high-end events, advertising on major media platforms, and funding high-risk engineering efforts.

At the same time, engaging with crypto is still a fringe behavior and accessible only to a fraction of society. If we want to regenerate the earth, we need a radically different approach.

Our vision is to bring crypto into the daily lives of every significant startup community on the planet, reaching the top founders, investors, and builders who have proven they can change the world. These startup communities are the key cultural and technical innovation hubs that will drive the radical change we need to realize the vision of prosperity for all.

# The Opportunity
There are four key components in Celo’s strategy that we can leverage to build a global network of startup communities that engage with Celo on a daily basis as a core part of their identity:
1. Mission-driven brand
2. Mobile-first architecture
3. L2 transition
4. Regional DAOs

By aggregating the entire ReFi x Celo ecosystem (both IRL *and* online) into a single product experience, we believe we can radically increase new wallet addresses, daily transactions and TVL, as well as drive new founders, developers, and active Celo community members.

Furthermore, with Celo’s support we aim to realize our vision of a global Regen CoordiNation interwoven with other web3 impact communities like Green Pill, Regens Unite, and HerDAO. We see a globally-dispersed yet deeply connected network of local startup communities engaged in a single unifying goal: *Regenerate the earth using the most powerful tools of our time*.

## Our product vision: ClassPass for Regeneration
Imagine a ‘[Class Pass](https://classpass.com/features) for Regeneration’ that rewards you for making a positive impact both in-person and online. You can access the local regenerative society wherever you are, whether it's Paris for ETH CC or Istanbul for Devconnect. We make it easy to connect with people, places, and projects that matter while making it possible to earn money by taking action. 

Whether you’re donating to UBI via impactMarket online, joining a local beach cleanup, or looking to find the most regenerative places to live, eat, or work —we can make regeneration the easy, fun, and lucrative choice. 

Having trained directly with Dr. BJ Fogg of Stanford University, we’ll employ leading behavior science to build daily, weekly and monthly habits to not only change the behavior of key leaders but also their identity—the key piece of the regenerative transition.

## Approach
We’ll work with a world-class design studio to run a series of short research and design sprints to test the product hypothesis, behavior model and discover the highest leverage points for growth. 

Our aim is to engage key stakeholders across key capital allocators like Celo Foundation, Climate Collective, Credit Collective and Flori Ventures as well as vital ecosystem initiatives like impactMarket, GoodDollar, Grassroots Economics, EthicHub and Kolektivo.

We want to create a product that leverages existing infrastructure such as [Valora](https://valoraapp.com/) and [Masa](https://www.masa.finance/), and is symbiotic with ongoing developments such as Libera and Kolektivo Wallet.

# Proposal
This proposal outlines the use of 587,000 CELO (aprox. 267,000 EUR) over three months to fulfill a number of core objectives:

1. Develop a product specification and roadmap for a ‘classpass to regeneration’ on Celo through research, design, prototyping and user testing
2. Support the formation of 20+ events while forming 15 new local nodes in key startup cities alongside Celo Regional DAOs through a quarterly grant program run on Celo via Allo protocol
3. Setup an impact and evaluation framework for local nodes hosting events, onboarding new users via Valora and taking action on-chain
4. Launch Source Studios as a network of regenerative ‘podcasters’ rooted in the culture and communities of the Celo x ReFi DAO ecosystem
5. Host the first annual ‘Davos for ReFi’ after ETHLisbon on Nov 6-7 to galvanize community and coordinate action across the entire network

## Total Budget 587K CELO (aprox. 267,000 cEUR)
- Core team operating expenditure: 132k CELO (aprox. XXX,000 cEUR)
- Projects Budget 455k CELO (aprox. XXX,000 cEUR)

## Projects
We’ll undertake four distinct projects for a total of 455,000 CELO (aprox. XXX,000 cEUR):
- I. Discover: 110k CELO
- II. Local Node Incubator: 125k CELO
- III. Source Studios: 110k CELO
- IV. Annual Meeting: 110k CELO


### I. Discover - 110,000 CELO (Aprox. 50k cEUR)
The purpose of the Discovery phase is to understand the key leverage points across both the Celo and ReFi DAO ecosystem. We need to test product and behavior assumptions through prototypes before pursuing production-grade engineering.

The insights from this phase will be articulated in a series of dashboards and reports, which will serve to inform any subsequent grant proposals. 

With a deep foundation of strategic insights, we feel confident we can deliver an outsized ROI for Celo and the ReFi ecosystem as a whole.

**Key partners:** [WE3](https://we3.co/) (ex-IDEO design collective), [Behavior Delta](https://www.behaviordelta.com/) (leading behavior design consultancy)

#### Budget
1. Research & design sprints with WE3 — 20,000 cEUR
2. Behavior design — 7,500 cEUR
3. Solution architecture — 15,000 cEUR
4. Celo x ReFi ecosystem dashboard & report — 7,500 cEUR

**Note:** We are intentionally working with the best in the business as we believe efficient product discovery is essential to drive lasting behavior change and network effects.

### Key resources
| Role | Engagement | # FTE | # Weeks | $ / Hour | Total Cost |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Design researcher | Agency (WE3) | - | 2 | $125 | 10,000 cEUR |
| Interaction designer | Agency (WE3) | - | 2 | $125 | 10,000 cEUR |
| Behavior designer | Agency (Behavior Delta) | - | 1.5 | $125 | 7,500 cEUR |
| CTO - Erik Bairos (of Carbon Path) | Contract | - | 4 | $100 | 15,000 cEUR |
| Project manager & content creator | Employee | 1 | 8 | $24 | 7,500 cEUR |

### Objectives
1. Develop a unified ecosystem growth hypothesis for Celo regional DAOs and ReFi nodes
2. Define the product specification and roadmap for a ‘classpass for regeneration’ on Celo
3. Publicly launch the ReFi DAO x Celo partnership with an ecosystem dashboard & report


### II. Local Node Incubator - 125,000 CELO (Aprox 57k cEUR)
Starting in Q4, our plan is to pilot a Local Node Incubator and grants program on Celo via Allo Protocol that will propagate rich, founder-led startup communities in key cities (known as Local Nodes). The purpose of these nodes is to onboard talent and capital into ReFi via regular events.

We’ll do this in close partnership with Celo regional DAOs to identify and form vibrant startup communities in cities like:
- London
- NYC
- San Francisco
- Tokyo
- Seoul
- Amsterdam
- Barcelona
- Madrid
- Rio de Janeiro
- etc.

We’ve already demonstrated traction on this model with the [$25k cUSD Local Node GG18 Round thanks to Celo Foundation and Celo Europe](https://blog.refidao.com/local-node-applications-are-open/) with ongoing discussions amongst both Celo LatAm and Celo Africa for future partnerships.

You can take a look at the [Local Node Toolkit](https://www.notion.so/1000a8af4ed94c11806f5e9991499355?pvs=21) and browse through the list of existing Local Nodes from the Alpha cohort over the last three months at [refidao.com/community/local](https://www.refidao.com/community/local)

The vision is to a realize city-level global coordination layer that actively onboards new users into ReFi via Valora and later a ‘classpass for regeneration’ mobile dApp. This will attract a diverse range of value-aligned talent and capital into the Celo ecosystem. 

This is a key foundation of the product vision which will enable any organization to incentivize a global network to take a specific action on-chain and gain rewards. Imagine impactMarket, GoodDollar or EthicHub being able to activate a global network to a specific action through a rewards mechanism?

We believe these nodes can provide the core framework for a regenerative society which we can cultivate through a mobile-first product offering engineered through subsequent funding.

### Objectives
1. Host 20 Celo sponsored local events through ReFi Local Nodes
2. Form 15 new ReFi Local Nodes on Celo via Allo Protocol in partnership with Celo regional DAOs*
3. Host monthly online events propagating knowledge and connections across local node leaders and Celo regional DAO leaders
4. Co-create an impact and evaluation framework for local nodes and regional DAOs hosting events, onboarding new users via Valora and taking action on-chain
5. Develop a v2.0 Local Node Toolkit for running great events, attracting top leaders, and much more.

**Note:** This assumes the successful deployment of Allo Protocol on Celo before November 1 2023.

### Budget
1. Q4 grant capital (deployed on Celo via Allo Protocol*) — 25,000 cEUR
2. Cohort design and delivery — 15,000 cEUR
3. Community and socials — 12,000 cEUR
4. Content production — 5,000 cEUR


### III. Source Studios - 110,000 CELO (Aprox. 50k cEUR)
Following the success of ReFi Podcast, we want to launch a new brand called ‘Source Studios’ to support the emergence of up-and-coming regenerative storytellers in web3 and beyond. Think of it like the ‘Bankless’ for ReFi with a focus on the global south and real-world climate solutions enabled by web3, AI and other technologies.

Thanks to the support of Climate Collective and Celo Foundation, we’ve been able to produce the #1 podcast in the ReFi movement, reaching over 60k downloads with 28 episodes and 35 pieces of micro-content.

As a result of existing grant capital, we have begun production on three new shows in three languages, and are seeking 50k cEUR to fulfill the following objectives:

### Objectives
1. Design a generative AI brand framework to support a network of regenerative storytellers in three Celo regional DAOs (LatAm, Europe, Africa)
2. Build a network of global distribution partners including Ecosia, Waterbear, Pi Network and others to reach hundreds of thousands of listeners
3. Produce 12 episodes of Chad Frischmann’s Climate Quest show—founder of Project Drawdown
4. Support an up-and-coming storyteller to produce 12 episodes in Portuguese
5. Support an up-and-coming storyteller to produce 12 episodes in Spanish

In total this would produce 36 pieces of Celo branded content in three languages with an estimated reach of over 100,000 listeners. Long-term, we’ll look to sell sponsorship slots to other value-aligned actors who want to tell their regenerative stories to leaders across the globe.

### Costs
1. Branding — 12,500 cEUR
2. Partnerships — 7,500 cEUR
3. Production — 21,500 cEUR
4. Merch — 5,000 cEUR
5. Equipment — 3,500 cEUR 

### IV. Annual Meeting:Davos for ReFi - 110,000 CELO (Aprox. 50k cEUR)
On Nov 6-7, we are hosting the first annual meeting for leaders of the regenerative economy—the Davos for ReFi. This gathering will take place every year in a different location across the ReFi DAO and Celo network, but this year it’ll take place in Lisbon the day after ETHLisbon and will lead up to NEARcon. 

We’ve shifted the dates to allow Celo leaders attending Devconnect to get to Istanbul and capture Lisbon's energy and magnetism leading up to Websummit.

Our vision is to bring together the entire ReFi DAO x Celo community and beyond for an immersive gathering that covers both inner and outer regeneration. We will feature top leaders from local regenerative societies in a four-day event that includes two days in the city and two days in nature, providing ample opportunity to delve deeply into both inner and outer regeneration.

Our focus on growth involves attracting talented individuals and capital through a decentralized network of local events. However, we understand the importance of further engaging with prominent figures from both local and global communities, including academics and government officials. This will help encourage action and foster a strong sense of community within ReFi, even among those who are not currently involved. Our aim is to occupy the space vacated by SBS when it transitioned to a fully online platform. We envision a multichain ReFi ecosystem, with each chain having its own community and focus. As such, we are requesting 1/5th of the total event value to position Celo as the leader in the ReFi ecosystem, while welcoming and also sharing costs with other players.

We originally intended to have representation from a wide range of institutions, but seeing the [Web3 x SDG Event Proposal Road to COP28](https://forum.celo.org/t/proposal-web3-x-sdg-event-proposal-for-road-to-cop28/6225) focus on Climate Week as well as COP28, we feel these traditional actors are likely to be well covered at other Celo events and will narrow our focus to global and local leaders of the ReFi community. 

- Celo Foundation
- Climate Collective
- Mento Protocol
- ReSource Finance
- impactMarket
- EthicHub
- Portuguese Ministry of Environment
- NOVA University Lisbon
- Flowcarbon
- Gitcoin
- GreenPill Network
- Toucan
- Senken
- Regen Network
- Moss
- Allo Protocol
- Filecoin Green
- Protocol Labs
- PositiveBlockchain.io
- HBAR Foundation
- NEAR Foundation
- Polygon Foundation
- DFINITY Foundation

### Costs
The following are contributions towards the total cost of the event, which we are actively sourcing through other partnership discussions.
- **Venue**: 25,000 cEUR
- **Catering**: 15,000 cEUR
- **Production**: 7,500 cEUR
- M**erchandise**: 2,500 cEUR


## Known Risks
Informed by our knowledge in the blockchain and climate space, we recognize the market risk posed by the current macro economic context, as well as the regulatory uncertainty chilling much of the crypto space. We’ve mitigated this risk by seeking a smaller initial pool of funding while we prove our product hypothesis and growth model before developing production-grade software.

We also recognize product development risk as a core facet of any new technology.

These risks are mitigated through world-class research and design to ensure any future engineering efforts result in products people want to use and behaviors that will ultimately result in impact and ecosystem growth for Celo blockchain.

## Core team
We’re currently operating a small, lean core team assisted by a suite of AI co-pilots. We are actively working with leading AI experts at [AI.PT](http://AI.PT) to improve our workflows and operational efficiencies across every aspect of our organization.

Members currently include:
- John Ellison 🇺🇸 — serial entrepreneur, behavior designer, podcast host (ex-Toucan Protocol, OpenGov)
- Emilie Viallon 🇫🇷 — HR executive, kundalini yoga instructor (ex-Checkout.com)
- Rica Amaral  🇧🇷 — positive blockchain, web3, and impact pioneer, former Celo employee
- Monty Merlin Bryant 🇬🇧 — ReFi advocate, Master in impact and innovation from Bristol University
- Anna Kaic 🇭🇷 — multi-lingual marketer and growth lead (ex-ReFi Spring, Urbanika)

Additional members:
- Community Manager - we will be looking for a full-time community manager as a part of this grant.
- Daryl Edwards 🇨🇦 - Advisor position, leadership coach

We’ll be compensating the core team with a temporarily reduced mean salary of 3,333 cEUR per month, with an expectation to increase back-to-market rates as we gain further funding. 

### Costs
- 6 core team members at an average of 3,333 cEUR per month = 60,000 EUR (approx.132,000 CELO)

cEUR Denominated Budget

Given most of the core team and project expenditure is located in Europe, the currency of choice mitigates risk of potential market fluctuations.

## Advisors
We have been grateful to receive support from the following strategic advisors:
- Phil Fogel — Flowcarbon
- Patrick Rawson — Curve Labs
- Simar Mangat — Magic Ventures
- Ian Poirier — Toucan Protocol

## Road to sustainability
We intend to turn the ReFi DAO into a self-sustaining organization by the end of 2025 in two main ways:
1. Membership Fee 
2. Protocol Fee
3. Event and content sponsorship 

The first two long-term value capture mechanisms need to be designed and tested through product discovery and implementation. We intend to raise further funds from value-aligned capital allocators as the market sentiment continues to improve alongside our ongoing Gitcoin fundraising efforts.

We’ve already proven we can gather event sponsorship revenue at ReFi Lisboa with a self-sustaining event business in just 6 months.

## Multisig
* **Multisign Address:** 0x78fAeCD5e33141B47b99a075aaD83f885431E297
* **Threshold:** 3/6
* **Signers:**

|Role                        |Name                    |Multisig                                    |
|---                         |:---:                   |:---:                                       |
| Source Steward             | John Ellison           | 0xCaD3887923B39cD2b0B6d13538C4ecB7C5EE9825 |
| Ecosystem Partnerships     | Rica Amaral            | 0x7F2053A876Cb053d8BB122Bde961F6ec5Fb6fFc5 |
| Content & Product          | Monty Merlin Bryant    | 0x59DDA36bD196Ec849838CE2163E6821f946b37Dc |
| Community                  | Anna Kaic              | 0x8948CDFd9bA1521ED043cd56fB4907a03975c441 |
| Chief of Staff             | Emilie Viallon         | 0xeafd50b4a90d8b643073b6dfa56286e4a987a60c |
| Advisor                    | Daryl Edwards          | OxDA47bdcC4826FB470990316341D9104cB1fb89   |


## Verification
### Before approving/voting:
Fetch the on-chain proposal and verify that the multisig address and approval amount match the approval call submitted to chain:

### Command
* celocli governance:show --proposalID 12X --node https://forno.celo.org

### Expected output:
```
Running Checks:
   ✔  12X is an existing proposal 
proposal: 
  0:
      contract: GoldToken
      address: 0x471EcE3750Da237f93B8E339c536989b8978a438
      function: approve
      args:
         0: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
         1: 587000000000000000000000 (~5.870e+23)
       params:
         __length__: 2
         spender: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
         value: 587000000000000000000000 (~5.870e+23)
      value: 0
metadata:
     proposer:  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
     deposit: 100000000000000000000 (~1.000e+20)
     timestamp:  TBD
     transactionCount: 1
     descriptionURL: https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/CGP-0093.md
```
