---
cgp: 111
title: Strategic Grant For Accelerating Celo Ecosystem Adoption Across Africa
date-created: 2023-12-12
author: 'Opera MiniPay (@opera_minipay)'
status: EXECUTED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/strategic-grant-for-accelerating-celo-ecosystem-adoption-across-africa/6969
governance-proposal-id: 147
date-executed:
---

## Overview
This proposal aims to accelerate the adoption of Celo ecosystem dApps through a new, incremental strategic marketing program within Opera Mini, Africa’s most popular browser.

Opera launched MiniPay 1, a non-custodial stablecoin wallet built into Opera’s popular Android browser Opera Mini 2, in Nigeria on September 13, 2023 and has since been expanding into Kenya and Ghana as well and is on track to cross 1 million user activations in January 2024, making it one of the fastest growing products in the industry and a key source of growth and adoption of Celo-based offerings. The goal is to bring MiniPay to Opera’s 100M+ users and provide those users a gateway to the Celo ecosystem.

Specifically, Opera is requesting $568,182 per quarter to enable an accelerated expansion of the Celo ecosystem across its African user base, to be used for the following:

Incremental marketing budget to advertise Celo ecosystem products within the Opera Mini product, e.g. through display ads and push & in-app notifications (in addition to ongoing promotions of the MiniPay product itself)
Co-marketing opportunities with Celo ecosystem projects
Dedicated business development point of contact for the Celo ecosystem and regular office hours for builders with Opera product and engineering leads
The grant shall be paid in $CELO, every quarter, with Opera intending to hold, stake and the ability to participate actively in governance. Opera is also exploring joining Google, Deutsche Telekom and others in running validators for the Celo network.

## Why Bet On Opera and MiniPay?
Opera has been one of the original members of the Alliance for Prosperity and has been a long-time supporter of the Celo ecosystem. Opera’s user base across Africa exceeds 100M users and Opera Mini is widely known for providing users with a data-saving technology allowing users to save up to 90% of data costs when browsing. With data being an expensive commodity in most markets, Opera Mini is the browser to turn to.

Integrating a Celo-powered wallet into Opera Mini has multiple benefits for users, including

### Accessibility

We are providing a solution that underscores accessibility as a core benefit which is particularly important in emerging markets in Africa, where access to essential financial tools remains limited. By seamlessly integrating DeFi services on the Celo network, we offer users a low-cost gateway to the global financial system. Celo innovations such as stablecoins as fee currency, SocialConnect, and FiatConnect augment this integration, amplifying real user value. The scale of this integration will likely lead to these technologies being adopted more widely by other companies as well.

MiniPay aims to lower the barriers to entry into financial services and Web3 by working closely with both regional and global players to ensure a simple, easy-to-understand, and consistent experience with the right payment methods.

### Easy of Use of dApps

Unlike with any other crypto wallet, MiniPay users can more easily use dApps that are featured in the MiniPay wallet - no need to find a ‘connect wallet’ button, no need to switch networks.

### Speed and Affordability

Celo’s network, renowned for its low fee transactions and high speed coupled with free data and data-saving features of the Opera Mini browser, perfectly aligns with the preferences of Opera users across Africa. With cost-effectiveness and rapidity being the topmost adoption drivers for our target audience, the integration of MiniPay ensures an optimal solution for seamless, fast, and low-cost payment transactions.

### Security

Celo’s use of secure, decentralized networks and smart contracts ensures that transactions made on the Celo network are transparent and secure. By integrating a Celo wallet into Opera Mini, we can offer our users a secure and trustworthy platform for accessing DeFi services on Celo.

### Payment transparency

MiniPay empowers users with instant notifications of transactions and real-time visibility into their wallet activity history. This ensures that users know where their money is going to and coming from and removes anxiety around whether or not a transaction has been completed.

Product Highlights Since Launching MiniPay
Tight user experience - more than 70% of users complete onboarding
100% success rate for users needing to restore their wallet (unheard of in the industry!)
Simple and fast on-and off-ramps - time to add/withdraw $1
< 1 min with MPESA (Kenya)
< 1 min with Airtime (Nigeria)
< 2 min with MoMo (Ghana)
Competitive rates - buy / sell rates that are competitive with leading P2P marketplaces in the region.

## How Will The Celo Ecosystem Benefit?

We request the ecosystem funds reflecting a joint effort to drive scale and adoption. We are on track to make the Celo ecosystem successful in the following ways. Launching new dApps to the user base that we are building up. We want to introduce key experiences into the ecosystem through dApps on MiniPay in the next few years and to its growing user base. We need support to amplify this and make it even more successful and useful to our users. We see this as a public good to enable distribution and onboard users to web3.

We’re currently in talks with several Celo ecosystem projects to go live, including

HaloFi - an app allowing users to reach their savings goals
GoodDollar - UBI application on Celo
Blockscratch - app that rewards users probabilistically
Paychant - ramp for Celo assets in Nigeria
Nuzo - physical commerce in Kenya
MoonPay - ramp for Celo assets in Nigeria and Kenya
Bitmama - ramp for Celo assets in Nigeria
Fonbnk - ramp for Celo assets to Mobile Money and airtime
Impact Market Learn and Earn
CashRamp - ramp for Celo assets in Ghana
FiatConnect - an open standard for on and off ramps
PoolTogether - The permissionless protocol for saving and winning.

All of which would benefit directly from the marketing efforts under this grant. This is not an exhaustive list and would have more partners that would activate key financial use cases on Celo and MiniPay. For partners interested in integrating, please fill out this form.

### Case Study: Impact Market Learn & Earn

Impact Market’s Learn & Earn dApp has seen a significant increase in active users since MiniPay launched (Note: Impact Market Learn & Earn was the first dApp to be included in MiniPay’s list) even without any active promotion of the product just yet.

We intend to work closely with Celo ecosystem partners to make their services available from Opera Mini and promoted inside the MiniPay Wallet as part of Discover, our newly built curated dApp store. Opera will commit to helping onboard new dApps onto Discover regularly.

Just as MiniPay is defining the stablecoin payment experience, we intend to redefine the user experience typically associated with Web-based dApps and improve on several points:

Connectivity: Users will not be asked to connect their wallet or to choose between many wallet options. Apps opened within MiniPay will just work.

*Fees:* All fees associated with interacting with these apps will be paid using cUSD, so the user doesn’t have to think about holding other currencies to use the product.

*Seamless on- and off-ramping:* MiniPay via a variety of local partners provides the ability to users to seamlessly on- and off-ramp to local currency, eg from their mobile money/airtime account, at attractive buy/sell rates, minimal fees, to lower the friction to use web3 dApps built on Celo

*Readability:* Actions executed on smart contracts will be presented in a human-readable way in clear and straightforward language.

*Discoverability:* Integrations will be showcased inside the curated Discover dApp store section, accessible right from the main view and offer promotional abilities to partners.

*Security:* MiniPay leverages automatic Google backup for secret recovery phrases making sure users’ accounts are secured, including assets used on Discovery dApps

*Storytelling:* Explaining the value proposition quickly in a way users can understand is often forgotten. We will allow developers to preface their application with a multi-screen story to quickly and visually explain what they are all about.


## Allocation

Opera is requesting $568,182 per quarter in CELO representing a joint investment to scale the Celo ecosystem across key African markets, to be used for the following:

Incremental marketing budget to advertise Celo ecosystem products using relevant marketing inventory available on Opera Mini, such as display advertising, bookmark links, push & in-app notifications during onboarding of new users and the lifecycle of existing users as well as other relevant inventory to drive activations and usage for MiniPay (in addition to ongoing promotions of Minipay product itself)
Marketing campaigns and promotional activations to drive user engagement and drive adoption.
Dedicated business development point of contact for the Celo ecosystem and regular office hours for builders with Opera product and engineering leads; regular onboarding, engagement and integration of ecosystem partner projects into MiniPay.
Creation of educational material to support the development of the Celo ecosystem and MiniPay. These resources will be shared through our websites and applications, including our very popular FeedNews content platform, social media channels, and community forums. Strengthening audience awareness of the product.
Commitment to provide quarterly updates on the progress of MiniPay and its engagement with Celo ecosystem partners. This could include the Signal Celo Community Newsletter or the Celo Foundation Prosper newsletter.

As mentioned before, the grant shall be paid quarterly in $CELO with Opera intending to hold, stake and the ability to participate actively in governance. Opera is also exploring joining Google, Deutsche Telekom and others in running validators for the Celo network. Opera already holds Celo and intends to continue to participate in the governance process.

The receiving address is 0x6f62E32cae54D66e234F0d1e27be7e33896Dc4CE

| Milestone |	$ Value of $CELO |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Q4 2023 |	$568,182 |
| Q1 2024	| $568,182 |
| Q2 2024 |	$568,182 |
| Q3 2024 |	$568,182 |
| Q4 2024 |	$568,182 |
| Q1 2025 |	$568,182 |
| Q2 2025 |	$568,182 |
| Q3 2025 |	$568,182 |
| Q4 2025 |	$568,182 |
| Q1 2026 |	$568,182 |
| TOTAL | 	$5,681,820 |

We seek community buy-in for a total budget of 10,410,000 $CELO ($5,681,820 at $0.50 CELO price) for the 3-year term (through Q1 2026) but are only seeking authorization for half the amount (5,205,000 $CELO) to cover the first four quarters. Opera has the intention to come back and request authorization for the remaining budget in a later proposal.

At the end of each quarter, Opera will withdraw the equivalent of $568,182 worth of $CELO at the 90-day average price of CELO from at the time of withdrawal. Unused $CELO will be returned to the on-chain treasury, the Celo Community Fund. 

Important note: this grant will not be used to fund the development of the core app or other Opera activities - all the proceeds will go towards supporting and growing the ecosystem and user base on Celo.
