---
cgp: 60
title: Introduce new StableCoin pegged to Colombian Peso - $cCOP
date-created: 02-08-2022
author: 'Juan (Discord: @juancamp1987#4903)(Github: )'
status: DRAFT 
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/proposal-to-introduce-colombian-peso-ccop-stable-coin/3200/15
governance-proposal-id: '[if submitted]'
date-executed: '[if executed] <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>'
---


# Proposal to Introduce new StableCoin pegged to Colombian Peso - $cCOP

By: Juan

## Overview
 
Colombia, officially the Republic of Colombia, is a country in South America with an insular region in North America. It is bordered by the Caribbean Sea to the north, Venezuela to the east, Brazil to the southeast, Ecuador and Peru to the south, the Pacific Ocean to the west and Panama to the northwest. Colombia comprises 32 departments and the Capital District of Bogotá, the country's largest city. It covers an area of 1,141,748 square kilometers (440,831 sq mi), with a population of 50 million.
 
80% of Colombians showed willingness to invest in cryptocurrencies while more than half of Colombians aged 25 to 40 have already invested or expressed interest in buying cryptocurrencies. A third of Colombian crypto-owners had already carried out transactions using cryptocurrencies.
 
Colombia ranked fourth in the world for Peer-to-Peer Bitcoin trading volume while its capital city Bogotá ranked seventh in the list of top Bitcoin cities, with 87 active crypto businesses.
 
It is estimated that over 3.1 million people, 6.1% of Colombia’s total population, currently own cryptocurrency.
 
Colombia saw a major boost in crypto use as a store of wealth as well as for transactional purposes in 2020, with peer-to-peer lending platforms and exchanges recording historic growth. LocalBitcoins reported that Colombia accounted for 11.3% of its global volume in 2020, making it one of the firm’s “main markets” alongside Russia and Venezuela. Transaction volumes on Buda.com, one of Latin America’s largest crypto exchanges, grew by 350% between 2019 and 2020 in Colombia, with active users on the platform increasing by 125% to 16,092 according to data provided by the exchange.
 
Colombia also boasts the second highest number of bitcoin ATMs in a Latin American country, according to Coin ATM Radar. The country has 39 bitcoin ATMs and tellers, with 33 in Bogota, the capital, alone. In contrast, Panama has only 29 bitcoin ATMs. The firt one in Latam is El Salvador with 212 ATMs but we have to know that Bitcoin is legal tender in this country.
 
Colombia has a lot of examples that people want a stable coin to use in their daily transactions, the great one was Daily COP (DLY) that aims to be a Crypto that uses their own blockchain and his own wallet to spend in daily transactions, this project was launched as the “first stable coin peg to COP” but two years later is failing for stability mechanism, not for adoption (+113k active wallets and 3,475,501 transactions) Token Tracker | PolygonScan
 
Right now we have over 6k users in Colombia using stable coins (cUSD and UST) in Simple Wallet, and one of the biggest challenges in the country is the possibility to give any way to spend their assets, in the country there is a mental barrier and people are usually to think/spend in COP.
 
In the year 2021 the remittance inflow to Colombia reach the US$8.200 millions, this is a huge use case because people have to pay high fees to MoneyGram, PayPal, and giving the opportunity to people could use Valora in their foreign countries and sent the remittances to a beneficiary wallet in Colombia with fees around US$0,001 is a great incentive to get people involved in the Celo ecosystem. Also when people receive their remittances they want to spend it in food, transport, and goods if they could exchange their foreign remittances (cUSD, cEUR, cREAL) to their local currency (cCOP) and spend it without doing cashout was very useful to the adoption of Valora and Celo Blockchain.

People in Colombia is thinking every day how to do their savings in dollars, they have the option to use Valora and exchange their cCOP to cUSD and receive the 10% Valora gives to the holders of all stable assets, this property will attract a lot of people to move their funds from their saving accounts to the Celo Ecosystem.
 
 
## Motivation
The CELO blockchain is a mobile-first layer 1 with the mission to build a financial system that creates the conditions for prosperity for everyone.
The ability of CELO to launch local currencies is a strength of the protocol and Mento.
 
The Mento’s mission is to enable the development of natural-capital backed stable assets that strengthen communities, preserve the environment, and help bring prosperity to all. Now more than ever, the world needs transparent, open-source, and permissionless stable assets.
 
In the same way that Celo can be the home to other stable assets, we envision a future where Mento assets live on different blockchains.
 
Mento has the capability of Multi-mento Deployment​ as they docs says (https://docs.mento.org/mento-protocol/core/overview):
“Many instances of mento can be deployed in parallel for different stable assets. Currently, cEUR , cREAL and cUSD live side-by-side, with independent buckets and oracle reports (although both of them are using the same SortedOracles instance). They all fill the CELO bucket with funds from the Reserve, but not necessarily at the same time.”
 

 
 
 

## Use cases:
Cobru already accepts cUSD and the App is being so popular in Colombia local commerces. So if we have a cCOP the adoption of Cobru and his integration into the local commerces would be easy and more accessible.

Impact Market have already onboarded a community of young athletes, so we have now a community that is going to receive US$5 each week and have to spend them, a local cafeteria is going to receive the funds to provide some food for the athletes during his works but they have the prices of items sold in COP, so we need the cCOP to be more easy the transaction process. Also I am working to onboard more communities that suffer alimentary insecurity, when we have these communities onboard Impact Market we are going to have more local commerces using the cCOP.
Colombia is mostly agricultural and small farmers, Agriwards  Agriwards is a platform powered by Celo blockchain that connects you with the smallholder farmers that grow your food. It also enables you to directly support social impact projects that uplift farmer communities.

The new integration with EticHub is a huge opportunity to help farmers in Colombia, but they buy their supplies in COP, so if we have the cCOP we could work with the local commerces to accept it as a payment method.
Indahouse. Is developing the first app to buy and sell real estate fractionated in Colombia. They are ready to start operations in around 1 month, and hope we can see the cCop to do transactions with a COP stablecoin. Last year, the real estate market cap was around 11 Billions dollars in Colombia and 39 Trillions in LATAM, so, if you launch the cCop, we can put a big quote of transactions with that one.
Another big project that I can tell yet is going to be deployed in the Celo’s NFTs markets as AriSwap, Alities and CyberBox and we want to onboard people saying that they can buy these collections using the cCOP.
Another number of companies are widely open to use cCOP as a payment method for their payments, for example some companies about e-learning courses and platforms.
Unergy is a great tokenization project in Colombia about green energies. His team is doing a great work with his development, this is another use case for the cCOP. They are running at the moment in the polygon Layer2 but they know about Celo in the BlochchainSummitLatam and they are thinking about moving to the Celo Network.
In Medellin there exists a place called HashHouse and they receive USDT, USDC and BUSD. I have asked them to receive the cUSD and they are open minded to do that, also if we have the cCOP they can accept it as a payment method.
In the next days Medellin is going to have a blockchain event called XpoCrypto I was talking with the organizers maybe to have a panel about StableCoins and could be an opportunity to introduce a StableCoin pegged to the Colombian Peso and backed by the Celo Reserve a Carbon Negative reserve. 
 
 
## Partner Integrations
Valora can pay the 12% APY they are paying to the StableCoin holdings in the wallet if Celo add another StableCoin like $cCOP, so we can offer to the people in Colombia to move their funds of the Saving Accounts that only pays around 5%APY per year to the Valora Wallet and their are going to receive the 12% APY.
 
## Exchanges
MelonCash local exchange is waiting for the launch of the cCOP to list it along CELO, cUSD, cEUR and cREAL. This exchange wants to be the leader in the Celo Blockchain adoption into Colombian territory, side by side with the use of Valora as a Non Custodial Wallet and where people can get 10% APR in his Stable Assets.
 
## Non Custodial Wallets:
Valora, Metamask, Celo Wallet, Celo Terminal, Celo Extension Wallet, Steakwallet
 
## Users need a way to on/off ramp.
While the on/off ramps get into Valora, people can get in/on via exchanges like MelonCash and CobruApp.
 
The program “Celo Connect The World” is working on the on/off ramp to improve this, Colombia is one of the Countries that is already into this campaign and we are going to have the on/off ramp provided by the FiatConnect open source API.
 
## TODO: Including contracts on the registry
This is the technical part that cLAbs maybe could help to do.
 
## Pre-mint addresses
In principle, CELO can decide to pre-mint some cCOP. 
Suggesting to pre-mint US$ 1.000.000 could be enough for the initial adoption.
 
 
## Parity
With Mento, these currencies should be in parity with their respective currencies. the initial pairs have to be:
CELO/cCOP
cCOP/cUSD
cCOP/cEUR
cCOP/cREAL
 

