---
cgp: 72
title: Establish and Fund Bug Bounty Program on Immunefi
date-created: 2023-3-5
author: '@vissequ, @keccakdog'
status: DRAFT
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/proposal-establish-and-fund-a-bug-bounty-program-for-celo-on-immunefi/5060
governance-proposal-id: TBD
date-executed: TBD
---
## Overview

### Objective

The objective of this proposal is to establish and fund a Bug-Bounty Program for Celo on Immunefi.

### Immunefi

ImmuneFi is a security platform that provides decentralized bug bounty programs and security assessments for DeFi (decentralized finance) projects and blockchains.

The platform allows DeFi projects to create their own bug bounty programs with customized rules and rewards, and incentivizes security researchers to find and report security vulnerabilities in exchange for rewards in cryptocurrency.

In addition to bug bounty programs, ImmuneFi also offers security assessments and code reviews to help DeFi projects identify and fix vulnerabilities before they become critical security issues. This can help DeFi projects build more secure and trustworthy platforms for users.

For comparison, here is a list of other major blockchains and web3 services currently using Immunefi:

* Wormhole ($10,000,000* US in rewards)
* MakerDAO ($10,000,000* US in rewards)
Polygon ($2,100,000* US in rewards)
Optimism ($2,000,000* US in rewards)
Algorand ($2,000,000* US in rewards)
Gnosis ($2,000,000* US in rewards)
Arbitrum ($2,000,000* US in rewards)
*Data from January 9, 2023


//

Immunefi is a security platform whichallows DeFi projects to create their own bug bounty programs with customized rules and rewards, and incentivizes security researchers to find and report security vulnerabilities in exchange for rewards in cryptocurrency

that provides decentralized bug bounty programs and security assessments for DeFi projects by connecting them with security researchers.

### Test A
#### Test b

Create a bug-bounty program on Immunefi and allocate 1,000,000 CELO from community governance funds.

### Proposal Overview
The Celo ecosystem 

Proposal: Establish and Fund a Bug-Bounty Program for Celo on Immunefi.

Summary: Create a bug-bounty program on Immunefi and allocate 1,000,000 CELO from community governance funds.

Purpose: To incentivize community members and professional white hat hackers to uncover and fix any bugs that may exist within the Celo Protocol.

For comparison, here is a list of other major blockchains and web3 services currently using Immunefi:

Wormhole ($10,000,000* US in rewards)
MakerDAO ($10,000,000* US in rewards)
Polygon ($2,100,000* US in rewards)
Optimism ($2,000,000* US in rewards)
Algorand ($2,000,000* US in rewards)
Gnosis ($2,000,000* US in rewards)
Arbitrum ($2,000,000* US in rewards)
*Data from January 9, 2023


//

### Proposal Overview
The truest spirit of crypto and cypherpunk values is in embracing free and open source software (FOSS) technologies that can enable both the freedom to build and empowerment of humanity. This technology creates the foundation for everything we rely on in Web3, and that includes protocols like Celo and even Ethereum — which need vital support. Projects fostering more financial inclusion globally through crypto especially depend on open-source software at their foundation. The purpose of the Treasury won’t focus on looking for a call to grants to evaluate and fund on a specific funding category. Rather, this Treasury will focus on funding research and special projects based on what is most critical to grow a crypto-native community globally, from developers to end users.

It will also be experimenting with ecosystem development by empowering locals in emerging markets who are leaders in their field to manage on-chain governance specific to their regions, using resources of the fund and boots-on-the-ground support.

### Areas of Focus
There are four  key areas this effort will focus on (see Appendix for more information on targets).

#### Open Source Projects
_Mission_: To generate developer interest in Celo at a core level, and position Celo as a central player in the EVM community

_Target Outcomes_:

By 2 years from now:

* To have at least 50 people attending governance calls regularly
* Have at least half of people attending governance calls be non-cLabbers

_Examples_:

* Double down on identity research
* Push forward cryptography for privacy and compression
* Push forward an EIP that we can sponsor
* Improve EVM for things that are useful to Celo
* Support projects like Geth, Erigon, Hyperledger Besu

#### Radical Experimentation 
_Mission_: To increase community by pushing the envelope technically and making people say “wow, Celo is doing really cool things and I want to be involved with that community.”

_Target Outcomes_:

By 2 years from now:

* Bring the 5 most innovative, underfunded projects in crypto to Celo (for example, kyc-compliant privacy; novel ideas for real-world adoption like kong.cash; we’ll ask the community for what they want to see)
* Bring at least 3 innovative new ideas to bolster stability
* Bring the 10 most innovative independent core developers to Celo (for example, people like Or Neeman)
* Introduce at least 1 new standard (for example, erc20 contracts with allocation of transaction fees to reserve)

#### Global Markets

_Mission_: To have local autonomy in each country where Celo has a presence, by funding a DAO where the eco-lead and local crypto thought partners / influencers can make decisions on bootstrapping a Celo ecosystem in that country.

_Target Outcomes_:

By 2 years from now, for each country where Celo has an Ecosystem Lead:

* Have at least 10 technical projects funded per country, built on Celo, that would otherwise not exist, at least 1 of each of them becoming major projects in the community.
* Have the top 10 university communities be aware of and excited about Celo because of a university event/hackathon funded by the DAO

#### Developing Crypto-Native Community around Celo

_Mission_: Encourage the community to create more community-led projects by sponsoring hackathons, college blockchain club events, holding crypto-native community-building functions (example, League of Bridges) and providing support to all those who come.

_Target Outcomes_:

By 2 years from now:

* Have 3 new externally proposed CGPs
* Have 5 new non-country-specific DAOs on Celo with substantive engagement (social daos, investment daos for celo ecosystem, mission-related DAOs e.g. regenerative finance DAOs)
* In countries where there are large crypto developer communities and Celo has a large presence, but no eco-lead (for example, US, Germany),
* Have a talk at the top 20 college blockchain clubs
* Have 5 Celo hackathons
* Have 25 new projects built on Celo arising from hackathons/college blockchain talks, at least 5 of which become major projects in the community.

### Structure

#### Multisig

The Multisig contract address is `0x8AE64ABEDDEbEFE087Bd33876c7c26ddF6B9cD6B` and found [here](https://explorer.celo.org/address/0x8AE64ABEDDEbEFE087Bd33876c7c26ddF6B9cD6B/transactions).


* Ryon - Ox00a343aF6C3D5affC960B3217B4bAc09005B3650
* Dave - Ox388eEB44BDd165398e0df76A17A0d3E1FDD0E6Fb
* Ben - OxE5A07798510c3b1l16658058Ccaf491d9DF4512E9
* Connor (vissequ) - Ox46B6b086b464F501661F4710B34CEc26dF7d5c7
* Bogdan - Ox43147073Fb5D5e7845399f992d8CDD22144D4D2A
* DiWu - Ox5Ca621B88f8f3919eb489324CC780a3DF34f95fD
* Joe (Valora) - Ox2Fd97B45B21bB4e19c3cCb4885Ad44b70AA8758E

Any transaction requires the confirmation of 5 out of 7 signatories.

#### Budget

The CGP is requesting 3 Million CELO from the on-chain governance Community Fund.

The proposal will also have a quarter and mid point check in after a percentage of the Treasury.


#### Additional Information

The setup can mimic the CCF proposal where the on-chain Community Fund can withdraw those funds if they are left unused after a time by a future governance proposal.

Furthermore, there will be an open call for ideas from the community twice per year where the community can submit ideas of what the Treausry can target. 
 
#### Compensation

We propose for the equivalent of $100/hr payable in cUSD from the CET’s CELO holdings, within a cap of 40 hrs/week, be paid as compensation for the administrative operations of the CET. The funds for both the program and the administrative pay will be allocated upfront to the CET multisig from the on-chain Celo Community Fund treasury. In line with this proposal’s commitment to the community, all hours and activities of program operations will be logged publicly and transparently.

### First 90 Days Plan of Action

Given the Celo Ecosystem Treasury (CET) is going to focus heavily on funding large scale projects where other community funds and grant programs had a smaller scale, this is the plan for the first 30-90 Days with the activation of the CET.

The CET aims to immediately put the funds to good use funding ecosystem and open-source projects.

In the first 30 Days, the CET will:
* Reach out to 5 projects from the categories listed in the Appendix to begin conversation on support and scoping out funding requirements.

In the first 90 Days, the CET will:
* Fund at least 1 project in each high-level category from those listed in the Appendix.

### Marketing Challenges

Celo currently suffers from perception issues because we forked Geth and use shallow marketing terms like being EVM-compatible, without historically contributing much to improve the EVM. Donut added some new hash functions for Solidity developers, but we need to do a lot more than just that. This allows us to walk the walk. We also aren’t seeing enough projects with boots-on-the-ground engagements in emerging regions to foster education around how to use and build smart contracts, as well as how to best use on-chain governance for needs within those particular regions.
 
With this proposal, we will bolster marketing for Celo to crypto-savvy folks and locals in emerging markets, while promoting the on-chain community fund and encouraging more awareness of it.
 
### Proposal Risks

We have identified the following risks:

* People may perceive a sponsorship or grant as “pay to play”. We must work to limit the perception of Celo’s monetary support of projects as a way to control a project’s roadmap. We would also specifically state in clear terms how such contributions are viewed, and that they are done without an expectation from the engineering team to prioritize Celo specific interests.
* Another team tries to turn this effort into a marketing effort. The contributions are for the benefit of the entire developer community and the ecosystems we are focused on, so we should use this to show our leadership in the crypto space and for emerging regions.
* Another risk is performance risk based on where the Treasury is allocating capital. This is mitigated by quarterly and middle checkpoints to check in with the community.
* Conflict of Interest Risks: In the case of a conflict of interest with one of the multisig signer, the COI will be disclosed and the multisig signer will not participate in voting on that specific proposal.

## Verification

?


## Appendix

### Useful Resources
* https://forum.celo.org/t/proposal-establish-and-fund-a-bug-bounty-program-for-celo-on-immunefi/5060
* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sTFNu5zPngsygW0Q2HOhEWGuElsSIsJVyQQm-6mXeYY/edit
* https://immunefi.com/
