---
cgp: 158
title: Celo Infrastructure for Chain Lifecycle Operational Support (CICLOPS)
date-created: 2024-12-19
author: "Eric Nakagawa (@ericnakagawa), Martin Volpe (@martinvol), Silas Boyd-Wickizer (@silas)" 
status: EXECUTED 
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-infrastructure-for-chain-lifecycle-operational-support-ciclops
governance-proposal-id: 197
date-executed: 2025-01-14
---  


## Summary


This proposal outlines the need to fund technical infrastructure and primitives required to operate the Celo network and a pathway to decentralize this function to the community for increased long term resilience. It requests funds for the operation from Q4 2024 to Q4 2025.


We propose the creation of the **Celo Infrastructure for Chain Lifecycle Operational Support** or **CICLOPS 🧿** for short. CICLOPS will be responsible for reviewing and funding key infrastructure required to run and scale the Celo network.


The time period for supporting infrastructure costs shall be from the end of 2024 to 2025. At the conclusion of this period, the community can reevaluate the next path forward: Celo will be an established L2, costs may be different, and new and improved methods for funding infrastructure may be available.


## Motivation


As Celo transitions to an L2, it is important to ensure that key technical primitives and infrastructure necessary to operate the network have a sustainable source of funding and support. The list of infrastructure needs for any high-performance chain includes RPC providers, Indexers, Dev Tooling, Custody providers, Bridges, and Oracles (to name a few). Historically, the Celo Foundation has maintained private contract agreements and payments directly with partners through grants of varying sizes and over varying periods of time, usually in the 6 to 12 month range. However, as Celo continues its path to further decentralization, we believe that infrastructure benefiting the entire community must transition to being supported long-term by the community treasury.


This proposal aims to direct community funds towards network operations. It is inspired by examples seen in the MakerDAO ecosystem. [MakerDAO's MIP28](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP28#sentence-summary), for example, proposed the creation of the Operational Support Domain to facilitate the protocol's transition towards decentralization. This domain was tasked with providing essential services such as administrative support, coordination with stakeholders, and ensuring the continuity of operations. 


Maker’s Operational Support Domain acted as a bridge between the foundation and the community, which included overseeing governance decisions, maintaining communication channels, and supporting the development of decentralized teams. This team helped set standards for operations as the DAO matured. This is a helpful mental model to understand how the infrastructure costs and operations can transition to the Celo Community.


Additionally, the Celo community funded the core L2 infrastructure development through a public goods framework with the [Funding for cLabs Blockchain Public Goods Work](https://forum.celo.org/t/funding-for-clabs-blockchain-public-goods-work/6569) proposal. This successful proposal shows the community’s commitment to supporting essential services that are critical to the long-term success of the ecosystem.


## Metrics and KPIs


_Success for this proposal means funding key infrastructure primitives so the Celo chain stays a competitive chain as it progresses to an L2._


## Specification


### CICLOPS 🧿 Overview


This effort will be led by Eric Nakagawa from the Celo Foundation and supported by cLabs and Valora, two long-time Celo Ecosystem teams. 


The group will take **no compensation** from the budget requested. All funds from this proposal shall go towards fulfilling contractual agreements with service providers. Any revenue generated by onboarding infrastructure partners shall be directed back to the Celo Community Fund wallet for future use by the community.


To provide confidentiality to service providers, the Celo Foundation will issue payments on behalf of CICLOPS for as long as is needed, with a goal towards providing more transparency that we think benefits the entire web3 industry broadly. The Foundation will also counter sign agreements where a party is needed on behalf of the Celo Community. In many cases of infrastructure funding, a counterparty is needed to provide confidentiality of the agreed fees, and to guarantee future payments for ongoing services. The Celo Foundation offers to perform this service, although any business entity within the Celo Ecosystem in future may also perform this service on the behalf of the Celo Community.


The Celo Foundation reserves the right to subsidize fees paid to providers on a case by case basis.As stated above, the Celo Foundation and members shall request no fees for performing the services above.


### Infrastructure Recommendations


Projects for consideration include providing infrastructure support for RPC providers, Indexers, Bridges, Oracles, Dev Tooling, Custody providers, and other related services. Each project under consideration must be important to ongoing blockchain operations, provide improved developer experience, offer novel and interesting functionality as a protocol primitive, or demonstrate meaningful value in other ecosystems. The goal of this initiative is to fund important infrastructure primitives that enable Celo to attract and retain the best dapp developers.


Infrastructure project funding requests shall be reviewed and approved by the members of the CICLOPS group (Celo Foundation, cLabs, Valora) on an occurring basis and prioritized by the need of the chain.


### Funding Request 


We are requesting from the Community Fund $5.85M, split ~50/50 in cUSD and CELO, specifically $3M cUSD and the remainder in CELO totalling 3,794,940 tokens at the 90d (10/8/24 to 1/6/25) at an average of $0.751.


The requested funds shall cover some or all projected operational costs, necessary infrastructure updates, and any development enhancements across all selected projects.


To ensure flexibility and account for new infrastructure requests and any unexpected overhead, an additional buffer of $100,000 is included in the request.


A CICLOPS multisig wallet shall be created for the administration of funds. The multisig wallet address shall be appended to this forum post, and signers shall reply with their public keys.


### Current Status
------------------


This is a new initiative.


### Timeline and Milestones
---------------------------


Timeline for this proposal inclusive of Q4 2024 to Q4 2025. Proposals will be reviewed and paid on an as-needed basis. 


### Payment Terms
-----------------


Due to the sensitive nature of agreements with partners. This group aims to provide confidentiality of payments by withdrawing funds in quarterly chunks and distributed as needed. To account for upcoming costs and some previously covered by the CF, the first withdrawal will be for 50% of funds. To decrease the impact to the Celo token price, the group will consider using more cUSD as part of the withdrawal. Future Celo token withdrawals will be converted using Celo Foundation’s process for minimizing the impact to the token price while still acquiring the needed funds or tokens USDC/USDT for payment to partners.


### Team
--------


The team will consist of one person from the Celo Foundation and representatives from long-standing teams in the Celo Community. The team will remain the same throughout, but the specific person responsible may change. The proposed team includes:


*   Celo Foundation - Eric Nakagawa - Executive Director at the Celo Foundation
*   cLabs - Martin Volpe - Lead Engineer at cLabs (a Core contributor to the Celo Blockchain) and active Community Member
*   Valora - Silas Boyd-Wickizer - CTO at Valora (building MobileStack) and a long time contributor to the Celo Community

### Multisig
--------
Address for the 2 of 3 Multisig: 0xd71efa410B6EaAB0bAc3b515B393C886BE70F09E

Signers
*   Eric Nakagawa - `0x9AD631ff4518d4a2a7276D2dF0803F37EfA52080`
*   Martin Volpe - `0x1a96E07fa5A4801b4881C2DC7B953D7356e26495`
*   Silas Boyd-Wickizer - `0x738D3e9A97D2E2aE6F404D381570E1fb112176BA`
* Executed by: [0xj4an-work](https://0xj4an.xyz)
