---
cgp: 106
title: 'Funding for cLabs blockchain L2 project'
date-created: 2023-10-31
author: 'Tim Moreton (@timmoreton)'
status: EXECUTED
discussions-to: 'https://forum.celo.org/t/funding-for-clabs-blockchain-public-goods-work/6569/19'
governance-proposal-id: 142
date-executed: 2023-11-12
---

## Overview

This CGP is a revised proposal for funding for cLabs' CEL2 project.

It replaces CGP-0105. 

Detailed background to this proposal is given in the [forum post](https://forum.celo.org/t/funding-for-clabs-blockchain-public-goods-work/6569/19).

### TL;DR - what’s changed vs the earlier proposal?

* We’ve focused the proposal on a specific project, the development of the L2, rather than a team that does a range of public goods work.
* We’ve published an [L2 roadmap](https://forum.celo.org/t/cel2-roadmap-update/6815) that details the milestones covered by this proposal
* We’ve refactored the grant around the first ~6 months worth of milestones for this roadmap, taking into account all of the resources we’d need to execute it
* The grant amount requested is commensurately lower, at 2,769,504 CELO in 6 equal installments of 461,584 CELO, in anticipation of a future grant request for subsequent milestones
  * We double down on best practices we expect to see emerging from the governance sprint:
  * We set the CELO price for the grant on the basis of the prior 60-day average close per CoinMarketCap
  * (As before) Grants made to a ReleaseGold contract, with a cliff and time-based vesting schedule
  * (As before) Grant is revocable at any time before completion by a future governance vote
  * We commit to report our progress to the Forum at each milestone, and on completion


Full FAQs that cover use of funds and background on cLabs are covered in the Forum post.

### The CEL2 Project Milestones

This governance proposal seeks funding from the Celo Community Fund to accelerate the workstream that cLabs kicked off with its proposal to transition Celo to an L2 on Ethereum, which was widely supported by the Celo and Ethereum communities.

The first part of this roadmap should be taken as the basis for the milestones for this project grant proposal. The milestones are detailed in the [forum post](https://forum.celo.org/t/funding-for-clabs-blockchain-public-goods-work/6569/19).

### Summary

* Time period: Nov 8 2023 to June 7 2024 (~6 months)
* Cost estimate: $192,251 per month for 6 months -- total $1,207,503 USD
* Grant requested: 2,769,504 CELO in 6 equal installments of 461,584 CELO each (Calculating CELO at $0.436 by CoinMarketCap average close price over 60 days from revision of proposal, 10/27/23)

## Proposed Changes

The proposal funds a ReleaseGold contract already deployed to the network. It does not modify or upgrade any contracts or parameters.

## Verification

Before approving/voting, fetch the on-chain proposal and verify that the destination address matchs the address of the ReleaseGold contract, `0x33020296A0Da7C897D2d6dADeF5FeCEbe2667aD7` and that the amount is 2,769,504 CELO, equivalent to `2769504000000000000000000` or `2.769504e24`.

```celocli governance:show --proposalID 142```

Then verify that the same contract is a ReleaseGold contract with parameters that match the proposal:

```celocli releasegold:show --contract  0x33020296A0Da7C897D2d6dADeF5FeCEbe2667aD7```

In particular check these parameters:

```
releaseOwner: 0xD533Ca259b330c7A88f74E000a3FaEa2d63B7972  # check this is GovernanceProxy address by copy-pasting into Explorer: allows Governance to revoke the grant
beneficiary: 0x8c7510C66f1BbF8f700a2665c898b3FB77550E38   # cLabs self-custodied account
releaseSchedule:
  releaseStartTime: Wed, Nov 8, 2023, 12:00 AM PST  # release start time
  releaseCliff: Sun, Jan 7, 2024, 8:00 PM PST  # 2 month cliff
  numReleasePeriods: 6   # 6 month total vest
  releasePeriod: 1 month, 10 hours   # monthly vesting
  amountReleasedPerPeriod: 461583833333333333333333 (~4.616e+23) #  6 times this value plus 1 CELO equals total grant (contract sends 1 CELO when beneficiary registers a vote signing key)
```

## Risks

This proposal does not deploy or upgrade contracts or change network parameters so represent minimal risk to the network. 

This proposal does transfer funds from the Community Fund.  The major risk is an incorrect destination address that would leave the funds in the wrong account, or an incorrect `releaseOwner` on the ReleaseGold account. So long as those are correct, if any other parameter is incorrect, the contract can be revoked, the funds returned, and the grant reissued. 

## Useful Links

* [Forum Discussion, September 2023](https://forum.celo.org/t/funding-for-clabs-blockchain-public-goods-work/6569)
