---
cgp: 217
title: "Validator Spending Reduction - Option #2 Reduce rewards by half"
date-created: 2025-12-26
author: 'Alex Witt'
status: DRAFT
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/validator-spending-reduction-3-onchain-options/12817
governance-proposal-id:
date-executed:
---

Proposal Description
============================

This proposal aims to reduce the rewards of RPC nodes (formerly Validator set) set in half, from 82.19 cUSD to 41.09 cUSD.

This proposals is one of three possible choices. The other options being:

* Option #1 Reduce the set by half
* Option #3: Keep the current set, with rewards reduced to zero

Approvers will only approve the one with more "yes" votes. In case the proposal with more "yes" votes doesn't meet quorum to pass, it will get re-submitted on-chain immediately after the winning proposal expired.

"No" votes will not be counted for the purpose of picking a winning choice, therefore voters can explicitly abstain by voting "no" on all three options. "No" votes do not affect quorum.

An "abstain" option can not be submitted as a separate proposal because governance is currently set to allow only three proposals dequeued per day, so the 4th option will be lagging the other ones by 24 hours, and that's undesirable.
 
Proposed Changes
============================

## Transaction Descriptions

1. Reduce rewards by half
  - Destination: Election.setTargetValidatorEpochPayment
  - Data: (uint256 value = 41095890410000000000 (41.09 cUSD))
  - Value: 0

## Json Script

```
[
    {
        "contract": "EpochRewards",
        "function": "setTargetValidatorEpochPayment",
        "args": [
            "41095890410000000000"
        ],
        "value": "0"
    }
]
```


Verification
============================
A human readable version of this proposal can be found using the following command:

```
$ celocli governance:show --proposalID TBD --node https://forno.celo.org
```
 
Risks
============================
As the election set handles RPC nodes and not Validators generating blocks after the L2 transition, these changes are relatively low risk.
 
Useful Links
============================
* Original Reduction proposal: https://forum.celo.org/t/reduce-elected-validator-set-from-110-to-55/12732/48
* Proposal migratong validators to RPC nodes: https://forum.celo.org/t/the-great-celo-halvening-proposed-tokenomics-in-the-era-of-celo-l2/9701
