---
cgp: 0043
title: Reserve freezing to get back to target allocation
date-created: 2021-10-12
author: '@martinvol, @rcroessmann'
status: DRAFT
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/economic-parameters-bucket-sizes-and-reserve-allocation-cgp-40-cgp-43/1997
governance-proposal-id: [if submitted]
date-executed: '[if executed] <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>'
---
## Overview

CGP 0043 - Reserve freezing to get back to target allocation

This proposal is meant to freeze a portion of the unfrozen Celo allocation the reserve currently holds, proposing a multi-year linear release schedule.

As Mento bucket sizes are proportional to the Reserve size, in order to keep the current bucket sizes as-they-are, it is needed to increase the reserveFraction for all the stable assets currently deployed (cUSD and cEUR) in the same proportion as the percentage of the Reserve that is frozen.

### Status

According to the [Reserve Website](https://celoreserve.org/), it currently has a target allocation as follows:
- 50% CELO
- 29.5% BTC
- 15% ETH
- 5% Stable Value Assets*
- 0.5% Natural Capital Backed Assets*

However, the current allocation the Reserve, counting only unfrozen allocation, currently has a ~68% allocation of CELO. This was caused by an original linear schedule of two years (set in [this proposal](https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/cgp-0006.md)) being too aggresive in practice.

The ultimate goal of this proposal is to get the unfrozen allocation back to target

## Proposed Changes

Fill out the following template for each transaction in the proposal

1. Setting the new schedule
  - Destination: `Reserve.setFrozenGold`
  - Data: CELO TOKENS AMOUNT TBD, Freezing days TBD
  - Value: 0
2. Updating bucket size cUSD
  - Destination: `Exchange.setReserveFraction`
  - Data: TBD
  - Value: 0
3. Updating bucket size cEUR
  - Destination: `ExchangeEUR.setReserveFraction`
  - Data: TBD
  - Value: 0

## Verification

TODO

## Risks

* At launch of the protocol, 120m CELO were allocated to the Celo reserve which currently make up a large percentage of the total Celo reserve value. Freezing part of that reserve CELO via this proposal is intended to allow bootstrapping the non-CELO Celo reserve in a controlled way over an extended period of time thereby reducing the risk of sharp increases of floating CELO supply.
* Freezing CELO reduces the amount of available reserve assets early on. This could enhance the risk that occurs when a demand decrease for stablecoins (cUSD) exceeds the total value of the (now reduced) exchangeable assets in the reserve.

## Useful Links

TODO
