---
cgp: 0157
title: CeloArabia DAO - Funding and Operations Proposal
date-created: 2024-12-08
author: @CeloArabia
status: Draft
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/celoarabia-dao-funding-and-operations-proposal/9520
---
Funding Request: Creation of Celo Arabia DAO
Authors: @CeloArabia
Funding Request: cUSD 21,000 ( December 2024 - April 2025)

Twitter: https://x.com/CeloArabia
Telegram: https://t.me/CeloArabia

Summary: Since March 2024, we have been engaged with local communities to promote Celo across the MENA region. We have created some of educational content that has helped attract new users and developers to CELO. Our presence on X has grown to over 150 followers, and our Telegram group now includes 20 active members. Additionally, we get a lot of views on our articles about CELO.
We need to further expand and formalize our work so we are seeking funding to address pending legal and operational tasks. Our focus is on fostering innovation, promoting financial inclusion, and supporting sustainable development.
Our DAO will play a crucial role in expanding Celo’s presence and adoption in the MENA region, capitalizing on the region’s active engagement with digital assets and significant inbound remittance volume.

Motivation:
Strategic Location: The MENA region is a key hub for global trade and finance, offering access to diverse markets and economic opportunities.
High Remittance Volume: The region has a substantial volume of inbound remittances, making it an ideal market for financial technologies that can provide cheaper, faster, and more secure transfer options.
Growing Interest in Digital Assets: There is an increasing interest and engagement with digital assets and blockchain technology in the MENA region, providing a fertile ground for Celo’s expansion.
Financial Inclusion: Many people in the MENA region are underbanked or unbanked. Celo’s mobile-first approach can provide accessible financial services to these populations, promoting greater financial inclusion.

Goals

Revolutionize Financial Access: Use blockchain and Celo’s mobile-first solutions to unlock financial opportunities for the unbanked and underbanked populations in the MENA region.
Stabilize Local Economies: Promote adoption of Celo stablecoins to provide a hedge against volatile local currencies, enabling seamless and stable financial transactions.
Inspire Innovation: Foster a vibrant ecosystem of developers and entrepreneurs by supporting Celo-based projects focused on remittances, decentralized finance, and sustainability.
Empower Communities: Create culturally tailored educational campaigns to demystify blockchain technology and make it accessible to diverse audiences across the MENA region.

What We Aim to Solve

Access Inequality:

Millions in the MENA region remain excluded from traditional financial systems. Our DAO aims to bridge this gap by providing accessible digital alternatives, leveraging mobile technology to connect underserved communities.

Remittance Challenges:

The MENA region is one of the largest recipients of remittances globally, yet high fees and inefficiencies persist. By integrating Celo’s blockchain solutions, we will simplify and reduce the cost of sending and receiving remittances.

Economic Vulnerability:

Local currencies often experience significant volatility. Through Celo stablecoins, we aim to provide individuals and businesses with a stable and reliable medium of exchange.

Public Skepticism:

Misinformation and a history of financial scams have eroded trust in new technologies. Through education and transparent solutions, we will rebuild trust and inspire confidence in blockchain innovation.

Specification

Our DAO will focus on building community and increasing adoption through a range of initiatives:

Community Building

Active social media engagement across platforms like Twitter and Telegram.

Education and Awareness

Conduct workshops, webinars to introduce blockchain concepts and highlight Celo’s ecosystem.

Create localized content in Arabic.

Collaborate with fintech companies, universities, and NGOs to promote the adoption of Celo’s ecosystem.

Develop use cases for Celo’s stablecoins in areas like remittances and financial inclusion.

Stablecoin Adoption

Introduce and facilitate the use of $cUSD and $cEUR as stable alternatives for daily transactions.

Engage with businesses and merchants to integrate stablecoins into their payment systems.

Metric	KPI	Description
Community Growth		
Telegram	+250	Increase the Telegram community by at least 250 members to expand our reach and engagement.
X (Twitter)	+400	Grow the Twitter account by 400 followers to enhance visibility.
Community Engagement		
Total Members Across Platforms	+650	Achieve a combined increase of 650 members on Telegram and Twitter.
Education and Awareness		
Educational Campaign Reach	4000	Reach at least 4,000 individuals through campaigns in the local language.
Engagement Rate	10%	Attain a 10% engagement rate on educational content.
Students	+50	Reach 50 student who completed at least 1 course in our academy and minted NFT as a proof of completion.
Workshops/Webinars	5	Conduct 5 workshops or webinars, with 60 participants each.
Our team with extensive experience is committed to establishing and expanding the CeloArabia DAO to accelerate the adoption of blockchain tools and opportunities across the region. The team’s focus is on fostering education, empowering communities, and building organizational frameworks to ensure widespread understanding and use of decentralized technologies.

By actively engaging with local communities, hosting educational workshops, and providing accessible resources, the team aims to bridge knowledge gaps and drive participation in the Celo ecosystem. These efforts are designed to create meaningful economic and social impact, leveraging blockchain solutions to improve financial inclusion and opportunities across the MENA region.

Mostafa Lotfy

The founder of Cryptoblararbi.com, he brings over 7 years of experience in community creation and management, content creation, and translation.

Gemy

Has 3 years of experience in translation and content creation.

Victoria

Has 3 years of experience in organizing events, establishing partnerships and design.

Nesmo

Has 4 years of experience in community management.

Ziad Mahmoud

Has more than 7 years of experience in the academic and programming field. He works as a teaching assistant at Pharos University, where he works on teaching Blockchain and the Solidity language to the students.

Budget Breakdown
Website Creation, Academy Creation, Social Media Channels - $2000
Social Media Management & Translation - $6000
Webinars, AMA & Competitions - $2500
Course Creation - $2500
DAO Setup and Management - $8000

Total : 21,000 cUSD

All funds managed through the multisig will adhere to a robust transparency framework, ensuring clear and accountable resource management. A detailed breakdown of expenses, including monthly operational costs and activity-related expenditures, will be maintained in a publicly accessible system, enabling real-time tracking of fund usage.

Any unused funds at the end of six months will be returned to the Celo Community Treasury, reinforcing fiscal responsibility. To ensure stakeholders remain informed, periodic reports will summarize recurring expenses, initiative outcomes, and project impact, fostering continuous evaluation and improvement.

This approach not only guarantees transparency but also builds trust within the community by showcasing the responsible use of resources and measurable results.

A multisig wallet will be utilized to manage funds, requiring 2 out of 4 approvals for any transaction. This added layer of security ensures that decisions regarding fund allocation are made collaboratively.

Multisig wallet: 0xe1B10f25eb56446bAF94A48b6b63f100f1f686c9
