---
cgp: 161
title: CeloPG Season 0
date-created: 2025-02-04
author: LuukDAO <@LuukDAO>, Monty Merlin <@MontyMerlin>, Niko Da Costa <@NikoG>
status: DRAFT
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/budget-request-celopg-season-0-final
governance-proposal-id: 
date-executed: 
---

### Proposal Description
**Summary (1)**
In line with the [Celo Governance Seasons Strategy](https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-governance-seasons-a-conversation-about-governance-evolution-ahead-of-cel2-migration/10055), this proposal aims to fund ‘CeloPG Season 0’ — a builder team dedicated to accelerating Celo’s ecosystem growth as it transitions to an Ethereum L2 and integrates with the Optimism Superchain. By continuing to innovate on public goods funding, governance coordination, and real-world blockchain adoption, CeloPG plays a critical role in shaping Celo’s regenerative digital economy. This proposal requests **164,000 cUSD** and **685,000 CELO** to invest in key programs and sustain initiatives until **June 30th, 2025.**

**Context (2 + 5)**
As Celo transitions to an Ethereum L2 and integrates into the Optimism Superchain, we believe it is more important than ever to double down and solidify Celo’s positioning as a leader in real-world adoption and real-world impact. Realizing a sustainable onchain economy for Celo requires a diverse, fast-moving ecosystem that can experiment with innovative funding models and effectively reward impactful builders at scale.

Since its inception, CeloPG has been key in spearheading this mission within the Celo ecosystem, leading programs and initiatives that ensure capital flows to mission-aligned builders and communities. In 2024, this included RPGF0, Celo’s first retroactive funding round that distributed 250k CELO to key ecosystem projects; Regen Coordination, a movement supporting local and global regenerative finance communities that with an $80k sponsorship from CeloPG, raised over $150K in external matching; and Celo Citizen Retro, an onchain mechanism rewarding active network contributors. Additionally, CeloPG has played a key role in helping to evolve Regional DAOs and streamline key Celo Grant programs.

See H1 and H2 Progress Reports for complete retrospectives of CeloPG 2024:

* [CeloPG H1 2024 Progress Report](https://forum.celo.org/t/celopg-h1-progress-report/8126)
* [CeloPG H2 2024 Progress Report](https://forum.celo.org/t/celopg-h2-2024-progress-report/9995)

During this time, Celo’s governance and ecosystem have evolved significantly, driven by initiatives like Celo Mondo and progress toward CEL2. In 2025, Celo enters the Impact Age, [as best articulated by Rene](https://blog.celo.org/from-vision-to-impact-powering-real-world-change-in-2024-from-celo-foundation-president-rene-8c3b8f146406)—a phase focused on scaling ecosystem projects, achieving product-market fit, and driving environmental, social, and economic impact. At the same time — as recognized in the [Celo Governance Seasons](https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-governance-seasons-a-conversation-about-governance-evolution-ahead-of-cel2-migration/10055/1) discussions — further evolution of Governance and streamlining of treasury management are required to continue decentralizing and growing the community and ecosystem around Celo.

This proposal for CeloPG Season 0 builds on past efforts while evolving its scope to make CeloPG leaner and more focussed than ever. With an H1 2025 budget request of 164,000 cUSD and 685,000 CELO, CeloPG will continue to focus on supporting impactful builders in the Celo ecosystem while innovating on the latest frameworks, AI, and onchain tools. With this proposal, we aim to drive the next phase of Celo public goods funding, onchain innovation, and ecosystem coordination, ensuring that the transition into the Superchain strengthens our position and accelerates progress toward Celo’s Regeneration Phase: a self-sustaining, decentralized, and community-governed ecosystem.

**Ecosystem Alignment**
A key part of the CeloPG strategy is ensuring Celo continues to act as a [live player](https://medium.com/@samo.burja/live-versus-dead-players-2b24f6e9eae2) in the Superchain, Ethereum, and Public Goods ecosystem while optimizing the resources and guidance provided to the Celo ecosystem. By aligning our initiatives and objectives with the strategies of some key stakeholders—including the [Optimism S7 season](https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-7-guide-to-season-7/9293) and [Gitcoin 2025 Strategy](https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/gitcoin-grants-2025-proposed-strategy/19723)—CeloPG can nurture our role in these ecosystems while increasing the resources available to Celo-aligned builders. We are dedicated to building, experimenting with, and advancing blockchain-based public goods funding mechanisms on Celo to make a regenerative digital economy a reality. This season, we’re doubling down on past learnings and enhancing our approaches with Impact Data Frameworks, AI agents, and onchain impact certificates to accelerate the Celo Public Goods ecosystem further.

**Program Innovation**
Developing systems and strategies for reliable impact measurement and reporting is key to creating programs that effectively reward impactful builders at scale. Development of frameworks and tools such as [Common Impact Data Standard (CIDS)](https://www.commonapproach.org/common-impact-data-standard/), the [Ecological Benefits Framework (EBF)](https://blog.refidao.com/refi-ebf-whats-next/#:~:text=ReFi%20EBF%20is%20a%20partnership,(ReFi)%20and%20Web3%20technology.), and Prosperity Accounts - to which our team actively contributes, as well as continuing our collaborations with partners such as Gitcoin, Open Source Observer, Metagov, Hypercerts, and Karma GAP will enable us to leverage data-driven approaches and implement innovative mechanisms for capital allocation.

**Season 0 Objectives and Deliverables (4)**
Our key objective is to make Celo the most advanced Public Goods Chain and realize Celo's vision of becoming a digital Regenerative economy.

As such, our milestones are:
- **1. Continue to position CeloPG as leader in the Web 3 x Impact and Public Goods space:** Develop a standalone CeloPG brand and other key assets, such as the [CeloPG.eco platform](https://www.celopg.eco/), that streamline program operations and retain talent and partners to Celo. **Deliverable:** Launch a stand-alone brand and updated website by March. 

- **2. High-quality execution of Builder Programs:** **KPI:** The overall Quality of Celo Ecosystem Round and Season 0 Retro scored **at least 4.5 out of 5 or higher by participants using a post program form** 

- **3. Amplifying Celo resources for builder programs**: Ensure that all programs resources are allocated to Celo-aligned builder that continue to provide value to Celo and attract third-party resources to increase the ROI of our programs. **KPI:** Aim to attract at least 50% in extra resources to the Builder Programs.
 
- **4. Support the operations and evolution of Celo Governance:** **Deliverable:** Provide timely and high-quality Governance Input, Treasury Reports, and organizing a flagship Gather event at the end of Season 0. Quality to be assessed by the Celo Governance Lead and Delegates.

**Specification (3)**
CeloPG Season 0 consists of eight interconnected line-items, each with their own focus and budget.

**A. Program Management and Operations:** The CeloPG Team will manage, operate, and report the CeloPG Builder Programs and represent CeloPG to attract resources and partners. This budget includes contributing costs, legal costs, software, and a small travel budget.

**B: Brand and Website Development:** With this new scope of CeloPG, we believe it’s the right moment to create a standalone CeloPG brand kit to articulate our focus better and differentiate from the regular Celo logo. We’ll produce an elegant brand kit that aligns with Celo Brand Assets. We will also update the CeloPG.eco website and provide the Prosperity Account to communicate effectively and leverage the capacity of onchain solutions + AI Agents for alignment. We’ll increasingly integrate our solutions and programs with the Celo Devrel program and tooling such as Jokerace and Lemonade.**

**Ecosystem Services** 
To support Celo Governance in decision-making and help unite the Celo Ecosystem around shared objectives, we will provide the following ecosystem services we successfully provided in 2024 across CeloEU and CeloPG.

**C: Celo Governance and Treasury Support:** Maintaining the Celo Community Treasury Accounting Sheet ([view Dec 2024 version here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bXc9LdL0iaQ4I9tVDrj-KTdl9Tzpr0MVnrcOEhYsiMM/edit?usp=sharing)) and publishing a Quarterly Treasury Report and providing proactive R&D support to the Celo Foundation and Ecosystem regarding Governance and Tokenomics, such as the Governance Sprint and L2 evaluation research - in line with the Seasons strategy.

**D. Event Services:** Lead the organization of a premier Celo ecosystem event in the early Summer of 2025 to unite and accelerate the ecosystem after the CEL2 transition in collaboration with the Celo Foundation. This budget does not include venue, merch, etc., which would be separate as a follow-up proposal once we have aligned the proper event scope with key stakeholders. Estimate the number based on the Celo Connect Berlin and Settlement Day budgets.**

**Celo Builder Programs** 
Creating a culture of build and getting rewarded is one of the best ways to grow the ecosystem. To make building on Celo exciting, rewarding, and impactful, we aim to continue operating multiple Builder Programs that attract and nurture builders on Celo at various stages of their journey. By partnering with value-aligned teams and initiatives, we can significantly increase the resources available in the builder programs.

**E.** **Celo Ecosystem Round:** The Celo Ecosystem Rounds merge the CeloRPGF0, which retroactively rewards projects building on Celo based on key metrics, and the Real World Builders program, a proactive donor-influenced grants program, into one unified program. The Celo Ecosystem Rounds will be developed in collaboration with Gitcoin, which, as indicated in its 2025 strategy, is moving to multi-mechanism rounds where different allocation mechanisms that are increasingly data-driven, allowing for AI Agent automation are used depending on the type and stage of projects.

**F.** **Regen Coordination:** In 2025, we will build on the strong foundations of 2024—having supported four Gitcoin rounds that raised over $235,000, nearly triple the funding provided by CeloPG. We will continue to work with leading onchain impact organizations to run the largest Regenerative acceleration network to retain and grow the ReFi and Impact niche on Celo. A detailed (draft) [strategy for 2025 can be found here.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bUC2Y4F7k4SEVAai8t6rrA_o1jI3aG4kaBSVCw_xI54/edit?usp=sharing)

**G.** **Community rounds:** We'll support matching for mission-alligned community rounds, allowing CeloPG to attract and nurture key sub-communities on Celo. In [H2 we matched $31K in Community Rounds resulting in over $100k](https://forum.celo.org/t/celopg-h2-2024-progress-report/9995) in cUSD being distrusted to builder on Celo - over 3x ROI.

**H.** **Season 0 Contributor Retro:** Comparable to Optimism’s season rewards and inspired by the insights gained during the Celo Citizen Round, we will collaborate with the Celo Foundation and Feedback Committee to shape and operate a Celo Goverance Season 0 Retro program to reward active contributors in the transition.

**Season 0 Timeline (6)**
|Month|Activity|
| --- | --- |
|March|GG23: Regen Coordination + 1-2 Community Rounds|
|June|Celo Season 0 Contributor Retro Round|
|June|Celo Connect event around ETHCC|
|June|GG24: Celo Ecosystem Round + 1-2 Community Rounds|

**Budget Breakdown (7)**
A detailed breakdown of the Season 0 and Ops budget + 2024 numbers of CeloPG can be [found in this dashboard.](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hQSxBtilxQ0f46JqTd-jABZ_ZWqcjOQjTQUHraNTJ8Y/edit?usp=sharing) 
||Initiative|Category|cUSD|CELO|
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|A|CeloPG Program Management and Operations|Operations|$70.000,00|60.000|
|B|CeloPG Brand and Website|Development|$7.500,00|0|
|C|Celo Governance and Treasury Support|Ecosystem Services|$9.000,00|0|
|D|Celo Event Services|Ecosystem Services|$12.500,00|0|
|E|Celo Ecosystem Round|Builder Program|$0,00|500.000|
|F|Regen Coordination|Builder Program|$40.000,00|0|
|G|Community Round Matching|Builder Program|$25.000,00|0|
|H|Season 0 Contributor Retro|Builder Program||125.000|
||TOTAL||$164,000|685.000|

**Legal Representation**
The Celo Public Goods Steward operations will again be coordinated by the Regenerative Finance Foundation, a non-profit foundation mandated to support the experimentation and growth of Regenerative Finance and function as the counterparty for specific CeloPG programs.

**Payment Logistics (8)**
CeloPG’s programs will operate its resources through a **3 out of 5 Safe** on Celo Mainnet. 
**CeloPG Season 0 (Celo):** 0x85910bE70D7eBF149918ed96eF8BE175A0639c33

The signers are LuukDAO (0x31cd90C2788f3e390d2Bb72871f5aD3F1a4B22a1), Monty (0x5A9dECFD5f146FCD1D1b85B2Ee069F4502fC87E4), Sophia (0x82A7EB81B5405aE06d88639529d2aa9F412AE08c), Niko (0x50111E51Cf97d6165e1A88D5CA0d4a4fa5d6c47E), and Sov (0x2D7d6Ec6198ADFD5850D00BD601958F6E316b05E). 

All signer addresses are either an official Delegate Address and/or part of a previous approved CeloPG Proposal.

**CeloPG Team (9)**
Based on the current scope of CeloPG and our learnings from running two cycles, we identified that program execution is the most critical function in the CeloPG team, such - we’ve gathered a balanced team of 3 contributors, all being builders themselves and two advisors who have deep context from the Celo Ecosystem and Public Goods funding at large.

* Lead: Luuk Weber - [Twitter
](https://twitter.com/LuukDAO)Lead of CeloPG in 2024 - [top 3 delegates in Celo Mondo](https://mondo.celo.org/delegate), and builder of multiple projects on Celo through [Kolektivo Labs.
](https://x.com/KolektivoLabs)
* Contributor: Monty Bryant - [Twitter
](https://twitter.com/MontyMerlin)Co-founder of [ReFiDAO](https://www.refidao.com/), CeloPG 2024 co-lead, and [Regen Coordination](https://x.com/regencoordinate) source.

* Contributor: Niko da Costa Gomez - [Twitter
](https://x.com/nikodcg)Lead of CeloEU in 2024 and the lead of the Celo ecosystem documentaries and [Gather events](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=01bPJ1clvC0).

* Advise and Support: Sophia Dew - [Twitter
](https://x.com/sodofi_)DevRel Lead at [Celo Foundation](https://celo.org/). Steward of CeloPG in 2024.

* Advise and Support: Sov - [Twitter](https://x.com/sovereignsignal)
Experienced Grants and Public Goods Program Developer. Head of Grants at [Gitcoin.](https://www.gitcoin.co/)

* Designer: Enrique Badaracco - [Twitter
](https://x.com/webupretu)Experienced Web3 designer who led the development of the CeloPG website (which Celo EU, Celatam, and Celo Colombia use as a template), the Celo Gather branding and assets, and over a dozen other Web3 projects.

- Developer: Luis (AnotherDev) - [Twitter
](https://x.com/0xAnotherdev)Senior Full-Stack Developer who has contributed to multiple Celo projects, including Prosperity Account, Impact Market, ReFi Medellin, and Kolektivo.


**Feedback Committee and Delegates as sounding board**
Due to the maturity of the Celo Delegates and the upcoming formatting of a Feedback Committee, the focus of CeloPG can now shift to strategy and execution rather than gathering ecosystem feedback through group conversation. Instead, we’ll proactively engage with Celo Delegates, the Feedback Committee, and all other Citizens to define the best scope for our builder programs and solutions.

We’re excited to go through this evolution with Celo and are ready to continue to commit ourselves to the growth and acceleration of the Celo ecosystem. Let’s build the Regenerative Digital Economy!
 
## Proposed Changes
### Transactions
Unique Transaction of ```six hundred eighty five thousand (685,000)``` Celo tokens approval to Multisign ```0x85910bE70D7eBF149918ed96eF8BE175A0639c33```
  - Destination: ```0x471EcE3750Da237f93B8E339c536989b8978a438```
  - Data: ```increaseAllowance``` & ```0x85910bE70D7eBF149918ed96eF8BE175A0639c33```
  - Value: ```685000000000000000000000 GoldToken```

  - Unique Transaction of ```one hundred sixty four thousand (164,000)``` cUSD tokens approval to Multisign ```0x85910bE70D7eBF149918ed96eF8BE175A0639c33```
  - Destination: ```0x765DE816845861e75A25fCA122bb6898B8B1282a```
  - Data: ```increaseAllowance``` & ```0x85910bE70D7eBF149918ed96eF8BE175A0639c33```
  - Value: ```164000000000000000000000 StableToken```

## Verification
Before approving/voting: Fetch the on-chain proposal and verify that the multisig address and approval amount match the approval call submitted to chain:

celocli governance:show --proposalID TBD --node https://forno.celo.org

Verify the on-chain proposal that:

- The Destination address of the Approval is the GoldToken Proxy `0x471EcE3750Da237f93B8E339c536989b8978a438`
- The approved Spender is the Multisign `0x85910bE70D7eBF149918ed96eF8BE175A0639c33`
- The amount of Approval is `685K Celo` expressed in WEI `685000000000000000000000`

- The Destination address of the Approval is the StableToken Proxy `0x765DE816845861e75A25fCA122bb6898B8B1282a`
- The approved Spender is the Multisign `0x85910bE70D7eBF149918ed96eF8BE175A0639c33`
- The amount of Approval is `164K cUSD` expressed in WEI `164000000000000000000000`
 
## Risks
- This proposal does not deploy or upgrade contracts or change network parameters so represent minimal risk to the network.
- This proposal does transfer funds from the Community Fund, but rather seeks an approval to pull funds from the fund, which means that the funds will not be lost if the approval address has a typo.
 
## Useful Links
1. [CeloPG Season 0 Proposal](https://forum.celo.org/t/budget-request-celopg-season-0-final/10125)
