---
cgp: 133
title: Cel2 Proposal Temperature Check - Using Optimism Stack for Cel2
date-created: 2024-05-03
author: Mariano Cortesi (@mcortesi), cLabs Blockchain & Primitives teams
status: EXECUTED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/clabs-proposes-migrating-celo-to-an-ethereum-l2-leveraging-the-op-stack
governance-proposal-id: 174
date-executed: 2024-05-11
---
 
## Overview

Following a recent Forum post from cLabs, the community is requested to weigh in and vote on Celo's transition to an L2 using the Optimism (OP) Stack .

A "Yes" vote will denote agreeing to use the "OP Stack".
A "No" vote will denote not using the "OP Stack".
An "Abstain" vote will denote neither agreeing to nor disagreeing with either option, but instead will help to achieve the minimum needed level of quorum needed to pass a resolution.


## Why should the OP Stack be chosen?

Among the many strong options that were presented, the most direct path forward to building CEL2 is to leverage the OP Stack.

The OP Stack fulfills the criteria previously outlined in prior cLabs shareouts, and it also fits needs in three key areas: (1) time to production, (2) Ethereum alignment, and (3) positive-sum growth.

### 1 - Time to Production

#### Importance

Choosing OP Stack accelerates our ability to deploy an L2, and allows Celo developers and its community to contribute to and benefit from Optimism's ecosystem of builders, users, and public goods infrastructure.

#### OP Strengths

The OP Stack largely provides what is needed to deploy an L2.
Minimal changes are needed to support Celo's unique features.
It is battle-tested with multiple chains in production and compatible with other stacks, such as Polygon's Type 1 ZK Solution.

### 2 - Ethereum Alignment

#### Importance

The Ethereum community consistently demonstrates a capacity to realize ambitious objectives. Celo began with many innovations that were not yet available on Ethereum to address real-world use cases upon launch. Continuing to align closely with Ethereum's roadmap enables us to integrate these features within a robust foundation. We believe the strongest position for the Celo community is to prioritize cohesion with Ethereum's roadmap and the thriving Ethereum ecosystem.

#### OP Strengths

The OP Stack maintains close proximity to the core of Ethereum.
Notably, the Optimism team is committed to minimizing the differences between op-geth and the geth client itself.

### 3 - Network Effects

#### Importance

Network effects are essential for Celo's ecosystem success. One of the biggest benefits of "returning home" to Ethereum is to allow for deeper collaboration with its communities, fostering mutual contribution and reception.

#### OP Strengths

In addition to taking new steps towards joining the Superchain, aligning with an increasingly popular technical standard reduces the friction for other positive-sum partnerships.
cLabs would like to be a force for collaboration rather than competition in Web3.

Additional detail can be found in the forum post.
 
## Proposed Changes
 
No on-chain changes, this is a temperature check proposal.
 
## Verification
 
This command should show no proposals:

`$ celocli governance:show --proposalID 174 --node https://forno.celo.org`
 
## Risks
 
As there are no on-chain actions performed at the time of executing this proposal, no risks arise in the short term.
 
## Useful Links
 
* Optional section
* Links to related CIPs or other documents (eg. if this is a proposal to point to a new instance of a smart contract that was updated)
* Executed by: [0xj4an-work](https://0xj4an.xyz)
