---
cgp: 90
title: 'CELO/wETH UniswapV3 Pool'
date-created: 2023-08-02
author: 'Roman Croessmann <roman@mentolabs.xyz>'
status: EXECUTED
discussions-to:
governance-proposal-id: 121
date-executed: 2023-08-11
---

## Overview

As part of [CGP #91](https://celo.stake.id/#/proposal/91), the Mento Reserve was instructed to create a $5m UniswapV3 [wETH (Axelar) / wETH (Wormhole) pool](https://info.uniswap.org/#/celo/pools/0x286a10805415bb24e056d3bf7cdb10a0ce8b024b)  as well as a $5m [UniswapV3 CELO / stCELO pool](https://info.uniswap.org/#/celo/pools/0x60ac25da2ada3be14a2a8c04e45b072bed965966) to support DEX liquidity on Celo. These two pools have not been utilized as much as expected. 

With Celo now moving closer to Ethereum (see the [recent Celo L2 proposal](https://celo.stake.id/#/proposal/116)) and judging from several conversations in the wider Celo community, it seems like a consolidated CELO/wETH pool on Celo would be a more efficient use of these assets. We therefore propose to instruct the Mento Reserve to unwind the wETH(Axelar)/wETH(Wormhole) and CELO/stCELO pools and create a (roughly $9.4m at current price levels) UniswapV3 CELO/wETH(Wormhole) pool from the withdrawn liquidity. The pool position is to be created with a wide price range to mimic a UniswapV2-type pool and therefore minimize potential impermanent loss for the Mento Reserve. The hope is that this liquidity will make it easier and more cost-efficient to move liquidity back and forth between Ethereum and Celo. As the highest mandate of the Mento Reserve is the protection of Mento stable asset (currently cUSD, cEUR and cBRL) holders, the Mento Reserve is also instructed to remove this liquidity in case it is required as collateral for the Mento stable assets.

## Verification

* The execution of this proposal does not lead to any immediate on-chain transactions as it simply contains instructions for Mento Reserve management. 
* To verify whether the Mento Reserve has faithfully executed the instructions of the CGP after the proposal has passed, check whether a CELO/wETH(Wormhole) UniswapV3 pool has been created on Celo with amounts of CELO an wETH(Wormhole) equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from the original CELO/stCELO and wETH(Axelar)/wETH(Wormhole) pools.
* Also verify that the Uniswap NFT representing this position is held in the Mento Reserve Safe (`0x87647780180B8f55980C7D3fFeFe08a9B29e9aE1`) - the same Mento Reserve address used in previous CGPs like [CGP #80](https://celo.stake.id/#/proposal/80).

## Risks

* The newly created CELO/wETH(Wormhole) UniswapV3 pool could lead to impermanent loss for the Mento Reserve in case of a substantial change in the CELO/ETH rate. Since the Mento Reserve has the Mandate to rebalance between CELO and ETH in the reserve anyway, one can argue that this potential for impermanent loss is already present without such a CELO/wETH pool. 
* As before, the wETH(Wormhole) held in the suggested UniswapV3 pool would expose the Mento Reserve to bridge risk. In the case of an exploit of the Wormhole bridge, the bridged wETH could become worthless.

## Useful Links
* [Celo L2 CGP](https://celo.stake.id/#/proposal/116)
* [Mento Docs](https://docs.mento.org)
* [Mento Reserve Webpage](https://reserve.mento.org/)