---
cgp: 49
title: cREAL Liquidity Incentives
date-created: 2022-02-14
author: 'Mila Rioja @MilaRioja, Nikhil Raghuveera @nraghuveera'
status: DRAFT
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/cgp-49-creal-liquidity-incentives/2935
governance-proposal-id: '[if submitted]'
date-executed: '[if executed] <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>'
---
## Overview
To grow cREAL in the Celo ecosystem, proposing an allocation of CELO from the Community Fund to encourage liquidity incentives for cREAL. These incentives will bootstrap liquidity to start the flywheel and gather momentum for demand, holding, and liquidity of cREAL, thereby supporting utility for real world use-cases including
Buying goods with wallets integrated with POS/Banking system and paying bills 
Staking
Using cReal in prepaid cards 

An allocation of CELO from the Community Fund could support incentives in the following way: 
Liquidity incentives in CELO for users depositing cREAL into liquidity pools and protocols such as Ubeswap, Symmetric, Mobius, Sushi, and Moola Market.
Cashback rewards and other promotions 

The actual amount of CELO rewards should be determined and voted on by the community, as well as how to best use this allocation to increase cREAL liquidity. 

At the moment, the Community Fund holds approximately 9M CELO. Based on this amount and referencing initial liquidity incentives provided by the Celo Foundation to DeFi protocols, at least $XM could be allocated to bolster cREAL liquidity. Possible liquidity pairs that also offer most stability for liquidity providers would include cREAL/CELO, cREAL/cUSD, and cREAL/cEUR. 

We leave the exact amount and form of liquidity incentives up to the community for further discussion. This governance proposal will be edited accordingly to accurately represent the amount and the incentive structure.

## Proposed Changes
TBD

## Verification
TBD

## Risks
* cREAL liquidity drops to previous levels after incentives end.
* CELO from the Community Fund is needed for other priorities
