---
cgp: 183
title: 'Celo Kreiva DAO Season 0-1 2025 Proposal'
date-created: 2025-04-16
author: 'Hawwal @hawwal , COTMusic @COT , Oracle @iamoracle , Emiri @emiridbest'
status: DRAFT 
discussions-to: 'https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-kreiva-dao-season-0-1-2025-proposal/10994?u=hawwal'
governance-proposal-id: TBD
date-executed: TBD
---

# Budget Request: Celo Kreiva DAO Grant: Season 0-1 2025

* Receiver Entity: Celo Governance
* Status: [DRAFT]
* Title: Celo Kreiva DAO Season 0-1 2025
* Author(s): @hawwal @COT @iamoracle @emiridbest
* Type of Request: Funding
* Funding Request: $177,000 cUSD

# Introduction

Celo kreiva is a “Purpose Driven Creative DAO” aimed at building a vibrant community of artists, digital creators, and collectors within the Celo ecosystem. This proposal seeks to establish a creative cosmos powered by creatives. You can check out the discussion article written some months back [here](https://forum.celo.org/t/discussion-creators-ecosystem-in-celo-l2/9504).

This proposal aims to establish a creative DAO through which grassroots grants are accessible to artists, gamers, digital creators, creator lab teams, and creative projects for the sole purpose of building a creator economy within Celo.

**What are we are trying to achieve:**

* Drive a dynamic influx of creative projects and individuals into the ecosystem by inspiring the birth of creative projects, attracting skilled individuals or groups to contribute their expertise and energy to the ecosystem.
* Contribute more liquidity into the network through creativity.
* Promote native Celo token vesting and lockups in Celo Kreiva DAO utilizing Aave protocol to encourage investor confidence in the DAO.

Celo Kreiva DAO is moving towards investing community funds in great creatives that will draw more liquidity into the network. This initiative will undoubtedly amplify Celo’s reputation in the Ethereum creator economy.

**Key objectives include:**
Grassroots grants to support creatives provided:

* Creative projects are connected to the Celo ecosystem.
* Creative initiatives that encourage the adoption of Celo.
* Creative projects with Tangible ROIs
* Drive the adoption of ecosystem products.
* A thriving creative community is created.
* Impactful creative projects with real-world use cases.

# Motivation

The creator economy was expected to grow from over $250 billion in 2024 to more than $480 billion in 2027. Web3 enables creators to cut out intermediaries and monetize their work directly.

However, Celo has no established community for creatives. Thus, investing in a creator ecosystem will allow Celo to:

* Increase adoption through digital creators and NFT communities;
* Become a major stakeholder in the Eth creator economy;
* Enable real marketing and community engagement.
* Offer small grants to help close the funding gap for emerging artists.

The absence of a clear grant program for creatives only makes this initiative more pressing. Our purpose is to enable creative projects and communities to create a cosmos of creativity, where artists and creators can thrive creating prosperity conditions for creativity within the Celo ecosystem.

### Why apply for Celo Kreiva

**Why would creators apply for this grant?**
Successful applicants will be Immediately adopted into the DAO which will expose them to Celo ecosystem stakeholders and industry players. Frequent workshops as well will be organized to empower these creatives.

# Specification

### 1. Global Partnerships:

We aim to onboard creative teams and projects into the DAO, beginning with this team [Revelator music](https://revelator.com/) Additional projects and teams will be announced in due course.

Additionally, we’re also looking at securing partnerships within the community, which includes Regional hubs, Celo Camp, Mento, Celo Mondo, Prezenti and others. These partnerships will help facilitate the distribution of grants to various creative projects across the globe.

**Partnership Details:**

|Partnerships|Commitments|Expected Outcome|
| --- | --- | --- |
|[Revelator Music](https://revelator.com/)|Integration of Celo Blockchain for Music royalty payments.|Music royalties to be available in cUSD.|

|Aspirational Partnerships|Commitments|Expected Outcome|
| --- | --- | --- |
|Regional Hubs|Allocation of Creator grants accessible to creators in their regions.|Diversity and inclusion.|
|Rarible X|NFT marketplace|Mint of Celo Kreiva NFTs.|
|Prezenti|New grant arm designed for creative projects.|Influx of creative projects and creatives.|
|Celo Camp|Art business skill acquisition training from a art curator with dedicated grants for awardee.|More business oriented creatives in the ecosystem.|

### 2. Grants :

Below are various grant categories with their dollar denominations:

* Sapphire Pool ($500): Prototyping, Early Creative Projects, & social exposure experiments
* Emerald Pool ($5,000): Larger Creative Projects and Communities
* Diamond Pool ($10,000): Grander Projects and Partnership

#### Grant Pool Breakdown & Criteria

#### :blue_square: Sapphire Pool ($500) – Prototyping & Early-Stage Creative Projects (Retroactive)

Purpose:

* Support early-stage creative projects, experiments, and prototypes.
* Provide small-scale retroactive funding to validate creative project concepts.

**Eligibility Criteria:**

* This is for a project in their early experimental or ideation phase.
* Must have measurable On-chain metrics.
* Encourages community engagement and adoption of Celo.
* Has potential for expansion into larger initiatives.

### :green_square: Emerald Pool ($5,000) – Larger Creative Projects & Communities

**Purpose:**

* Fund mid-scale creative projects with proven concepts.
* Support creative communities projects with Celo adoption concepts.
* Expand successful prototypes from the Sapphire Pool.

**Eligibility Criteria:**

* The project has a prototype or art product ready for deployment.
* Plans for ROI, and a financial sustainability plan
* Has utility for Celo ecosystem stakeholders
* Concepts that are ready to go on testnet
* Has real-world applications that drive Celo adoption.

### :gem_stone: Diamond Pool ($10,000) – Grand Projects & Strategic Partnerships

**Purpose:**

* Support large-scale creative initiatives with high impact on-chain and real-world.
* Proposals for ecosystem partnerships and collaborations are welcomed that drive development of creative public goods utilities for ecosystem stakeholders.
* Celo ecosystems adoption through major creative projects.

**Eligibility Criteria:**

* This category is for fully fleshed out concepts and requires funding to scale.
* Concepts that have gone past testnet and are ready to go Mainnet
* Concepts that have tangible real-world use cases verifiable on-chain are welcome.

#### Proposal Platforms:

* [Questbook](https://www.questbook.app/proposal_form/?grantId=67fe40d2a29ebddab1fce527&chainId=10&utm_source=questbook&utm_medium=grant_details&utm_campaign=share)
* [Charmsverse](https://app.charmverse.io/celo-kreiva-dao/celo-kreiva-dao-grants-6921390078940319)

#### Judging and Measuring Criteria:

**Scoring Rubric:**
Celo Adoption (30%), ROI (40%), Team Expertise (20%), On-chain validation (10%). Read our full criteria available on [Charmsverse](https://app.charmverse.io/celo-kreiva-dao/celo-kreiva-dao-grants-6921390078940319).

#### Diversity and Inclusion

* Offer multilingual support for Spanish, Portuguese and Chinese application forms.
* Partner with regional hubs to reach diverse communities.

### 3. Value Proposition:

**How it will benefit the Celo blockchain:**
**Creators:**
As a creative DAO, we are passionate about originality and have decided to be thorough about the art pieces displayed in our collection. In partnership with [Rarible X](https://x.rarible.com), we’ll be launching an NFT marketplace where only genuine art will be minted.

**How do we go about this:**
Creators will be able to submit their NFT project proposals to snapshot on a monthly basis where the DAO through governance can decide on NFT projects to support by adding to the Celo Kreiva’s collection. From these, collectors can purchase to gain access to governance privileges within the DAO.
Check out “how to propose Testnet” repo [here](https://github.com/Celo-Kreiva-DAO/How-to-Propose)

**Collectors:**
Collectors holding Celo Kreiva NFT’s will have access to our governance and have the ability to make proposals that contribute to the overall wellbeing of the DAO.

We will facilitate the launch of these NFT projects as long as they meet our requirements.

### 4. Strategy:

In line with Celo Governance Season 0, we will establish a Grants Council consisting of four moderators responsible for reviewing applications during each grants season alongside a (Guardian or Steward) - Advisory role to actively oversee and support the DAO’s activities to ensure inclusivity and decentralization. The council will rotate biennially, allowing more passionate community members the opportunity to participate in critical decision-making within the DAO governance model. This structure reinforces transparency and contributes to a more decentralized ecosystem.

### 5. Voting:

Snapshot, Charmsverse.

### 6. Celo Kreiva DAO Governance:

**Please Note:** “The concept shared below in this category is actively under development and is now available on testnet, you can check out our [Github](https://github.com/orgs/Celo-Kreiva-DAO/repositories) for more information. Our team will deploy on mainnet pending Celo’s stakeholders decision outcome of the proposal.”

**Token-Based Governance:** Inspired by Nouns’ approach to bootstrapping identity and collective decision-making, Celo Kreiva DAO will adopt an NFT CELO ERC721 token-based governance model, where holders of our NFT will have the power to make proposals and vote on projects using snapshot, Community members will have a chance to shape the future of Celo Kreiva through NFTs with governance advantages.

**Council Oversight:** council members or moderators will oversee the administrative aspects of the DAO, ensuring the smooth operation of our community and initiatives

**Funding Sources:** Our funding will come from grants, NFT sales and Loans.

#### Governance Details:

**1. NFT Voting:**

* One vote per NFT, capped at 10 votes per holder to prevent whale dominance.

**2. Council Selection:**

* Open call via forum, community vote on Snapshot.
* Biennial rotation, 4 members max.

**3. Transparency:**

* All votes recorded on Snapshot.
* Council meeting minutes shared on Telegram.

**4. Dispute Resolution:**

* Community veto via 60% NFT holder vote on snapshot.

# Metrics and KPIs:

* **Quarterly Reports:**
Every three months, we will have reports highlighting our progress so far, and completed milestones.
* **Percentage on completed/pending projects:**
These are projects that have received funding or yet to receive, also projects that have been completed or yet to be completed.
* **Community growth numbers:**
Community channel numbers across our various community channels.
* **Update on newly adopted projects/team as well as minted NFTs:**
Onchain activity report which include minted NFTs, and amount of transactions carried.
* **Monthly report on treasury:**
The Treasury report will be available via remox and to be shared on the forum.

# Current Status

We are still in the early stages to issue grants. Our grant rounds will commence upon the community’s approval of this proposal. In the meantime, we have established our community page on [Twitter](https://x.com/CelokreivaDAO), [Charmverse](https://app.charmverse.io/celo-kreiva-dao/celo-kreiva-dao-grants-6921390078940319), [Questbook](https://www.questbook.app/proposal_form/?grantId=67fe40d2a29ebddab1fce527&chainId=10&utm_source=questbook&utm_medium=grant_details&utm_campaign=share), Rarible Testnet and Snapshot testnest. We will expand to additional platforms such as RaribleX, Remox, Telegram, and more.

# Timeline and Milestones

Below is a 6 months runway of activities that will occur.

|Season 0/1 ‘25|Milestones|
| --- | --- |
|April|Community Feedback and Voting (if approved, the rest will follow)|
|May|Onboarding of Revelator|
|June|Launch “Kreiva Round”|
|July|Wait Period For Applications|
|August|NFT Mint|
|September|Application Review Period and Grant Distribution|

# Detailed Budget

Here is a detailed breakdown of how the funds will be distributed:

* Mods / Staff: 20% of total budget
* Advisory: 3% of total budget
* Grants: 70% of total budget
* Contingency: 4% of total budget

|Category|Amount No.|Cost|Season 0 & 1 duration (6 months)|Description|
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|Moderators / Staff|4|1,500|36,000|Monthly payments for Celo Kreiva Mods.|
|Advisory|1|1,000|6,000|Monthly payment for Celo Guardian Advisory role.|
|Contingency or Emergency|1|5,000|5,000|Find breakdown of contingencies below|
|Sapphire|10|500|5,000|Social experiments, & projects in early stages that have a realistic goal that can be delivered in the shortest time possible.|
|Emerald|15|5,000|75,000|Bigger creative projects, with a prototype and a realistic time frame to completion, project must reach testnet on Celo.|
|Diamond|5|10,000|50,000|Larger established projects who are looking to be integrated in the Celo ecosystem. Projects must reach Celo mainnet realistic time frame.|
|Total|||177,000||

### Mods:

* Moderators will work 10 - 15 hours/week reviewing grants and managing the community.
* Advisory will provide 2 - 8 hours/month of strategic guidance.

### Contingency:

* Website: domain - $9, hosting - $200.
* Otoco LLC or cCorp - $200 - $1500 (inclusive of Legal consultation fees)
* Farcaster: $3 - 10 monthly.
* Rarible X: est. $40 monthly.
* ENS: $35

Note: Balance will be kept in the treasury and will be used when completely necessary with a detailed report of purpose and evidence for expenditure.

# Payment Terms

If approved, 50% of the $177,000 cUSD ($88,500 cUSD) budget will be deposited into the Celo Kreiva 2/4 multisig wallet upon approval. The remaining 50% ($88,500 cUSD) will be deposited after 3 months, upon successful completion of specified milestones in the first half of Season 0 - 1

**Celo Kreiva Multisig (2/4):**
Celo: 0x46A8DC4786b4700D86BbCADD84A71f20cf0A5321

**Celo Kreiva Lockup:**
Celo: 0xfFA07dE7A652d357a1BF3A0b060030AC0aB3a71A

**Multisig Holders:**
Hawwal: celo:0xB6Bb848A8E00b77698CAb1626C893dc8ddE4927c
Oracle: celo:0x7360984Dd1e52cd898fE9AE1d2F8d017bFF56D74
COT: celo:0xD93e786498a3B56fd0B531648db294Cb378E4674
Emiri: celo:0xb82896C4F251ed65186b416dbDb6f6192DFAF926

# Team

**Hawwal: [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hawwal/), [Twitter](https://x.com/itshawwal), [Github](https://github.com/Hawwal)**.
I’m a front-end mobile dev and founder of Blaqk Stereo, a decentralized music distribution platform revamping artist royalties with stablecoin payments through minipay, and Tribe Block, a web3 University.
As a proud [Celo Camp alumnus](https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-camp-batch-9-blaqk-stereo/8579) (Batch 9) with a strong passion for web3 innovation, I’ve been actively building on Celo since 2022 and driving web3 growth in Africa for several years. My achievements include a Guinness World Record for the longest recording marathon, as well as facilitating the distribution of $20,000 in grants to accelerate art initiatives globally through Blaqk Stereo DAO.

**Oracle: [Twitter](https://x.com/_iamoracle)**
Oyeniyi Abiola Peace: is a blockchain software developer and the CEO of Blockchain Innovation Hub. Under his leadership, the company has trained over 600 talents and organized boot camps, hackathons, and training sessions for prominent blockchain ecosystems, including Celo, Arbitrum, Cartesi, and CrossFi. He has also worked as a DevRel Community Moderator for the Celo Foundation. Additionally, he is the co-founder of Pody Network, a Web3 alternative to Google Meet, which has over 30,000 users and more than 440 million seconds of in-app usage.

**COT: [Twitter](https://x.com/kelechukwulive)**.
Kelechi (aka COT): is a multidisciplinary creative — a seasoned record producer, artist, designer, and art director with over a decade of experience collaborating with global brands and artists on hundreds of successful projects.
With nearly five years immersed in the Web3 space, COT has played a pivotal role in pioneering projects that fuse blockchain technology with music and culture.
He was a core contributor at Blaqk Stereo, where he co-led groundbreaking initiatives within the NEAR Ecosystem, including a Guinness World Record-breaking project for the longest continuous music recording with multiple artists — a global movement that empowered creatives through collaboration and innovation.
Now, he’s building Apex Trybe — a decentralized record label reimagining how artists own, distribute, and earn from their music in the Web3 era.

**Emiri: [Twitter](https://x.com/EmiriDbest)**
Emiri Udogwu: A software developer who has been in Web3 for over 5 years and has actively participated in the Celo ecosystem for 2 years. He has been involved in Celo Sage, Celo Camp, Celo Africa Dao Incubator, Proof of Ship and so many Celo-organised hackathons.

# Additional Support/Resources

We strongly value having a Guardian or Steward to advise the Celo Kreiva DAO and We welcome the Guardians to nominate alternative candidates :yellow_heart:.

Additionally, we’d like the guardians / stewards to help in facilitating an introduction to the Celo Mondo team. Thanks

Relevant Links:

* [Questbook](https://www.questbook.app/proposal_form/?grantId=67fe40d2a29ebddab1fce527&chainId=10&utm_source=questbook&utm_medium=grant_details&utm_campaign=share)
* [Charmsverse](https://app.charmverse.io/celo-kreiva-dao/celo-kreiva-dao-grants-6921390078940319)
* [Github](https://github.com/orgs/Celo-Kreiva-DAO/repositories)
* [Revelator Music](https://revelator.com/)
* [Article](https://forum.celo.org/t/discussion-creators-ecosystem-in-celo-l2/9504)
* [Rarible Testnet](https://testnet.rarible.com/celokreivadaoart)
* [Testnet Snapshot](https://testnet.snapshot.box/#/s-tn:celokreiva.eth)
* **[Rarible X](https://x.rarible.com)**
* [How to propose (testnest)](https://github.com/Celo-Kreiva-DAO/How-to-Propose)

