---
cgp: '101'
title: 'Add New Governance Approvers Temperature Check'
date-created: '2023-09-26'
author: 'Tim Moreton (@timmoreton)'
status: 'DRAFT'
discussions-to: 'https://forum.celo.org/t/we-need-to-talk-about-governance/6409/4?u=tim'
governance-proposal-id: '140'
date-executed: 'TODO'
---
<!-- Please view another completed proposal for reference on filling the above section. It is important the type is correct eg Number, String -->


## Overview

This CGP is mainly a temperature check to assess community support for ratifying the existing members of the Governance Approver multisig and adding new members. 

It does contain code to execute, namely sending 10 CELO to each new approver address to cover fees used in service of network operations.

## Proposed Changes

The temperature check proposes to update the membership as detailed below.

Roles are given below for information -- because this is a community multisig, membership is linked to the individual, not their role or affiliation.

The multisig will continue to require the signatures of 3 approvers to issue a governance approval transaction. 

### Stay 

Current members remaining as approvers:

* Marek Olszewski -- Celo Founder and CTO at cLabs
* Tim Moreton -- Celo protocol engineer 2018-2022 and now CEO at cLabs
* Asa Oines -- Celo protocol engineer 2018-2022 and Founder, Hyperlane
* Zaki Manian -- Cofounder of Sommelier Protocol and early contributor to the Cosmos ecosystem
* Rob Witoff -- former Chief Architect at Coinbase, former CTO at Polychain Labs, and CEO, Unit 410
* Eran Tromer -- Professor of Computer Science at Boston University, and Founder, Sealance
* Kobi Gurkan -- cryptographer at cLabs, and head of research at Geometry

### Leave

Two existing approvers who for personal reasons wish to be rotated out will be removed from the multisig.

### Join

If passed, the proposal would add the following new members:

* Mariano Cortesi -- Head of Engineering, cLabs
* Martin Volpe -- Lead Protocol Engineer, cLabs
* Eela Nagaraj -- senior protocol engineer, cLabs
* Bogdan Dumitru -- CTO, Mento Labs
* Martin Chrzanowski -- Celo protocol engineer 2018-2023 and Advisor, cLabs
* Zviad Metreveli -- founder of WOTrust validator group and maintainer for Celo Terminal

## Verification

### Funding approvers

Before approving/voting: Fetch the on-chain proposal and verify that the destination addresses match the addresses of the new approvers, below, and transfer amounts are 10 CELO each:

```celocli governance:show --proposalID 140```

### Multisig changes

The governance approver multisig has address `0x41822d8A191fcfB1cfcA5F7048818aCd8eE933d3`.

This can be verified by looking at the `approver` field on the `GovernanceProxy` contract, e.g. [in CeloScan](https://celoscan.io/address/0xd533ca259b330c7a88f74e000a3faea2d63b7972#readProxyContract).

The members of the multisig are managed by the multisig itself, not by Celo Governance. If this proposal passes, the multisig will proceed to execute a number of transactions to bring its membership in line with the membership above.   

The multisig can be viewed at any point using the cli:

```celocli multisig:show 0x41822d8A191fcfB1cfcA5F7048818aCd8eE933d3```

or using [Celo Terminal](https://celoterminal.com) or other similar tools.

At completion, the owners should be (the order is not important):

```
  0: 0xBE0c3B35Ec3f759D9A67c4B7c539b0D5b52A4642
  1: 0xD6d48412dA0804CF88258bfDf5AaFcBe5FEd7ecC
  2: 0xFD74A4b05F12B9aB6020CB202aDE1BBa4Bc99aba
  3: 0xC631Eb5dE231000f96F4973ca8516d487108b2BF
  4: 0xC85639289D4Bbb5F90e380A0f4db6B77a2F777bF
  5: 0x92AD020Cde6A4e566770C603ae8315a9d7252740
  6: 0xbA4862643D476aCbC13276bd73DACa7b27bF567C
  <new approvers below>
  7: 0x5C73151A9eDcaccBD20EBB346bd4e419CdC94da3
  8: 0x5caE91b0d08641249580ac89E129E8242b8335EF
  9: 0xC97d3c16BE3CBE408984cF1d7cE50D4B00c246C0
  10: 0x94A33095647Bd7f51515c6B6D3e076DA72DAd8D2
  11: 0x978727D0b401B66Cf3891AaF9a40826765469bA2
  12: 0x3cA642DfBA1976D74Be94e735153ffdf722B9232
```

## Risks

This governance proposal transfers 10 CELO to the new approvers listed. Assuming that the destinations and amounts are verified, the operation itself is low risk. No smart contracts are executed or upgraded. 

The subsequent modification of the multisig membership could be subject to manual error or encounter a bug. The risk is assessed to be low as the multisig code is itself derived from audited and widely deployed Gnosis code, and was itself audited by OpenZeppelin. However, the approver multisig is critical to the functioning of on-chain governance.

## Useful Links

* [Forum Governance Discussion, August 2023](https://forum.celo.org/t/we-need-to-talk-about-governance/6409)
* [Governance in Celo Docs](https://docs.celo.org/protocol/governance)
