---
cgp: 56
title: Adding Di Wu as oracle provider
date-created: 2022-06-14
author: Martin Volpe (@martinvol, volpe@clabs.co)
status: DRAFT
discussions-to: TBD
governance-proposal-id: [if submitted]
date-executed: [if executed] <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
---
## Overview

The proposal is to allow Di Wu as an oracle runner for [Mento](https://docs.celo.org/celo-codebase/protocol/stability/doto#what-is-mento), the stability mechanism behind the Celo Stables. Di Wu has previously shown interest in running the oracles in a [forum post](https://forum.celo.org/t/decentralized-oracles/3610/2) calling the community to run oracles.

Before submitting the proposal on-chain, the community will asses the security setup of the new oracle clients, and request a signature from Di Wu to validate the addresses are indeed his.

Di Wu has offered to provide this service ad honorem.

## Proposed Changes

1. Enable Di Wi CELO/USD oracle
  - Destination: Enabling one address(TBD) to report to CELO/USD
  - Data: `SortedOracles.addOracle(cUSD address, ADDRESS1-DIWU)`
  - Value: 0
2. Enable Di Wi CELO/EUR oracle
  - Destination: Enabling one address(TBD) to report to CELO/EUR
  - Data: `SortedOracles.addOracle(cEUR address, ADDRESS2-DIWU)`
  - Value: 0
3. Enable Di Wi CELO/BRL oracle
  - Destination: Enabling one address(TBD) to report to CELO/BRL
  - Data: `SortedOracles.addOracle(cREAL address, ADDRESS3-DIWU)`
  - Value: 0
4. Disable cLabs CELO/USD oracle
  - Destination: Disable one address(TBD) to report to CELO/USD
  - Data: `SortedOracles.removeOracle(cUSD address, ADDRESS1-CLABS)`
  - Value: 0
5. Disable cLabs CELO/EUR oracle
  - Destination: Disable one address(TBD) to report to CELO/EUR
  - Data: `SortedOracles.removeOracle(cEUR address, ADDRESS2-CLABS)`
  - Value: 0
6. Disable cLabs CELO/BRL oracle
  - Destination: Disable one address(TBD) to report to CELO/BRL
  - Data: `SortedOracles.removeOracle(cREAL address, ADDRESS3-CLABS)`
  - Value: 0

## Verification

`celocli governance:view --proposalID TODO`

## Risks

Celo oracles work by enabling a list of oracles, enable them to report and calculating a median of the report. One individual provider can not influence the median on their own, the only way to affect it would be to control half the oracles plus one.
There's still a risk of hack of their infrastructure plus the incentives changing for Di Wu to turn malicious. The community will have to be vigilant community run oracles are behaving properly.

## Useful Links

-
