---
cgp: 91
title: Road to COP28
date-created: '2023-08-09'
author: 'jeanne bloch <jeannebloch@decentralized-desires.com>, '
status: 'PROPOSED'
discussions-to: 'https://forum.celo.org/t/proposal-web3-x-sdg-event-proposal-for-road-to-cop28/6225'
governance-proposal-id: 'TBD'
date-executed: 'TBD'
---
<!-- Please view another completed proposal for reference on filling the above section. It is important the type is correct eg Number, String -->

## Objective
The “Road to COP28” event series aims to create a platform that brings together corporations, Web3 leaders, and local communities to collaboratively address global climate challenges in the lead-up to the 28th Conference of the Parties (COP28). The event series will explore the role of Web3 technologies, blockchain solutions, and sustainable practices in accelerating climate action and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It will act as a showcase for existing and upcoming projects, as well as an interface for new partnerships between international organizations, institutional actors, corporates and Web3 communities. 

Blockchain technology offers many opportunities to scale up solutions in order to match the Sustainable Development Goals objectives. From fairtrade to blockchain traceability, from Kyoto protocol to carbon markets, stakeholders coordination and digital identity…. **How much do the Sustainability leaders know about these opportunities brought by Web3?**

 a. Awareness and Education: Raise awareness about the potential of Web3 technologies, particularly Celo blockchain, in contributing to climate action and achieving the SDGs. Educate participants about the benefits and applications of blockchain in sustainability efforts.
 
 b. Collaboration and Partnerships: Facilitate meaningful partnerships between corporations and Web3 leaders to foster innovation and co-create sustainable solutions for global climate challenges.
 
 c. Engaging Local Communities: Involve local communities in the discussions around COP28 and empower them to take an active role in addressing climate issues through Web3 and blockchain initiatives.



### 1.1 Focus Area / Format

The “Road to COP28” event series will consist of the following components:

- UN Climate Week / New York.
- CELO meeting: Bringing together Corporate Sustainability & Web3 ReFi (NYC, NY, Wednesday, Sept. 20th, 2023). 
- Register a CELO - Impact Blockchain Conference event as part of official Climate Week program 2 (organized by Climate Group. 
- Invite the audience from the Climate Group (senior corporations members and NGOs) to discuss 3 types of use cases from the CELO ecosystem:
  - Energy
  - Traceability
  - MRV tools

**(to be confirmed and refined)**
- Audience : 30-50 executive sustainability experts per panel, Total between 100/200 high level profile participants.
- Publish a video and,or print report of the event to be shared with a broader audience


### 1.2  COP28 Event: 
- Set up a CELO event along the Sustainable Innovation Forum 1 (4-5 December 2023) organized by Climate Action, https://www.climateaction.org/, in the Innovation Zone (Green zone). Invite a diverse audience:
  - NGOs/Businesses
  - North/South
  - Web3/ Web2 Sustainability.
Create a World Cafe moderation type to focus on real problem solving such as:
  - Sustainable innovation in the global South
  - Scale up: glocal solutions for global problems
  - DeFi as a key leverage tool for climate finance

**1.2.1 Attendees:** 
- 200 to 600 participants that will be selected according to our goal to gather experts from diverse backgrounds and in position to follow up on concrete actions.
- In addition, we might be able to host a CELO booth and/or breakfast in the “blue zone” (which means the official COP28 zone) (to be confirmed).
- Publish a report of the event to be shared with a broader audience

**1.2.2 Local Events**
In various cities, localized workshops will be conducted to involve the local community in the climate dialogue. These workshops will allow for interactive discussions, ideation, and planning for grassroots initiatives that leverage Web3 technologies.

Contacts gathered during the 2 previous events (NY and Dubai/COP28) will be invited to contribute to the Local Events.

Overall, this roadmap to COP28 will support the CELO community as a force to tackle climate change.


**Benefits for CELO Community:**
  - Business opportunities
  - Benefits for the participants: learn and connect with projects that could help scale up climate mitigation solutions
  - Benefits for CELO Foundation: Business development and comms


## Proposed Changes
Fill out the following template for each transaction in the proposal

1. Description of transaction 1
  - Destination: Goldtoken -> approve function 
  - Data: `0x99CaD60A9Bde3B8B65Dbe5651Dfbd3BC3B219e79` (address of multisig), `200000000000000000000000` (200k * 10**18).
  - Value: 0


## Multisig information
- **Multisign Address:** 0x99CaD60A9Bde3B8B65Dbe5651Dfbd3BC3B219e79

| Role | Name | Multisig wallet |
|---|---|---|
| Admin | Jeanne Bloch  | 0x62edAaC42aDd454EBf7f228F50EC8093ea446176 |
| Admin | Pierre noro | 0x560c3a71fEAFB1433Da8F68C96C08ceDe0314C47 |

- [verification](https://celoscan.io/address/0x99cad60a9bde3b8b65dbe5651dfbd3bc3b219e79#readProxyContract#F9)


## Budget Requested
Our budget request is a 2-stage process:
1/Stage #1 Request 100K USD = 200K CELO from Celo On-Chain Fund to support. Budget broken down in the following:

Stage #1 includes:
NY event overall organization
COP28 preparation and partnerships
Decentralized Events in 3 cities: initial contacts
Our goal is to raise 80K USD =160K CELO of sponsorship during Stage 1


| **NEW YORK CLIMATE WEEK** | **EXPENSES (US Dollars)** |
|---|---|
| **Organization + Content Preparation** | $26,000 |
| **Catering** | $15,000 |
| **Video** | $5,000 |
| **Event ROI Management** | $1,000 |
| **Marketing assistance** | $4,000 |
| **Graphic Design** | $5,000 |
| **Prints & Materials** | $4,000 |
| **Traveling x 2 persons** | $4,000 |
| **Unexpected expenses** | $3,000 |
| **Venue** | $20,000 |
| **SUB-TOTAL NY** | $87,000 |
| **COP28 +local event prep** | $13,000 |
| **TOTAL STAGE 1** | $100,000 |

DETAILED EXPENSES WILL BE SHARED WITH CELO COMMUNITY AND WHAT IS NOT USED FOR STAGE 1 WILL BE REALLOCATED TO STAGE #2 REQUEST FOR COP28 + LOCAL EVENTS

## Verification

TODO

## Risks

NA

## Useful Links
- Examples of Past Events led by Jeanne Bloch and Jacques Andre:
  - Impact Blockchain Conference at Académie du Climat at ETHCC [Jeanne BLOCH on LinkedIn: #ethccweek](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7088953053793394688/) | [testimonies](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7088953053793394688/).
  - Jeanne Bloch also organized several successful Impact Blockchain events during Paris Blockchain Week, EthTLV, Ethcc 2022: https://decentralized-desires.com/Conferences

**Contact details of governance participants and team**
- Jeanne Bloch
  - Bio: Jeanne has a background in environmental sustainability and has actively worked with several NGOs and global companies in implementing sustainable practices. She has a deep understanding of the Sustainable Development Goals and is passionate about exploring innovative technologies like blockchain to address environmental challenges. (She has been part of 2 COPs in the past).
  - Twitter: https://twitter.com/JeanneBloch 2
  - Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeannebloch/ 1
- Pierre Noro
  - Bio: Lecturer and researcher at SciencesPo Paris, at the Learning Planet Institute (Université Paris-Cité) and a proud member of the Blockchain for Good scientific committee.
  - Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/pierre-noro/

**Marketing/Admin Support:**
- Ivy Bagay:
  - Bio: Operations Lead at Commons Stack | Trusted Seed Community Gardener
  - Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ivy-bagay/
- Yineisi Mota
  - Bio: @TrustedSeed Community Gardener | Marketing Specialist Designing my path in the[ Web3, Marketing
  - Twitter: https://twitter.com/YineisyMota
