---
cgp: '88'
title: 'CELO Korea'
date-created: '2023-07-23'
author: 'Hope Lee (hopelee327@gmail.com), Alex Shin (alex@shinlabs.xyz, @82partners)'
status: 'PROPOSED'
discussions-to: 'https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-asia-dao-proposal/5957/14'
governance-proposal-id: '120'
date-executed: 'TBD'
---

# CELO Korea Proposal

**Proponent :**
Hope Lee, Alex Shin

**Requested CELO :**
USD 150,000 equivalent of CELO

**Initial contributors/advisors :**
- Hope Lee – founder ReFi Korea
- Danny - DAO Cartographer
- Alex Shin - prev. Co founder Hashed
- Owen Hwang - PM DSRV

**Short description:**
Celo Korea aims to mobilize local talent to build awareness and communities that align with Celo’s mission. Despite South Korea having the largest trading volume of CELO, there are no local community activities or press highlighting Celo’s ongoing efforts. This opens an opportunity to introduce “ReFi ,” which can counteract the negative perceptions around crypto following the recent downtown and highlight the potential for positive social impact, which we believe is timely and important.

By aligning the Celo narrative with key themes around ESG, social impact, blockchain thought leaders, and introducing ideas like regenerative finance – the objective is to foster positive change and enhance Celo’s credibility locally.

---

# 1. Situation
Korea frequently has the highest trading volume for CELO, yet visibility around Celo Foundation’s efforts and our community at large is non-existent.

Korea is a highly active and mature market for cryptocurrency. As shifts in global macro sentiment towards crypto are being questioned, leading ideas in our industry are being questioned as well, particularly in Korea where cryptocurrency adoption and speculation rates are among the highest. This presents a grassroots opportunity to introduce a new narrative.

Currently, Gamefi, Defi, and NFTs all have negative connotations. By dissociating Celo from financial upside and gambling and introducing ideas around prosperity and regenerative finance, we are confident that we can get both corporate and government attention and involvement, expediting Celo’s mission.

One of the challenges we have faced as a market is that Korea has always been the liquidity and price action market for western protocols. The market has been burned many times over, and Celo can present a different narrative.

# 2. Proposal Objectives

## 2.1 How we will do this

**Milestone 1: Content Localization**
Take everything Celo has done thus far + future announcements (ie, new product etc) and have it localized and delivered through effective channels.

**Milestone 2: Community**
Build out kakao/telegram and other community channels so that our messaging has reach.

**Milestone 3: PR and Education Content**
Come up with media coverage around Celo, conduct technical research and provide resources ie: educational content, localized technical documentation.

**Milestone 4: Partnerships/Products**
Once we build out CELO’s position in Korea, certain projects built on CELO can potentially be localized and launched here. If ESG narrative grows, there’s many corporate budgets and government initiatives around ESG we may be able to qualify for.

### 2.1.1 Milestone 1: Content Localization

**Goal**
Celo Korea will provide Korean language support to facilitate growth in the Korean market. Take everything Celo has done thus far + future announcements (ie, new product etc) and have it all localized and delivered through effective channels.

**Execution**
- Develop tailored blog channels: Create distinct platforms designed to cater to diverse audience needs.
- Publish regular, localized content: Curate and deliver relevant, professionally localized weekly content to stay current and strategically pertinent.
- Maintain brand consistency: Ensure the blog channel aligns seamlessly with Celo’s existing branding, maintaining brand integrity.
- Leverage secondary channels: Utilize additional traffic avenues to maximize content exposure and broaden reach.

### 2.1.2 Milestone 2: Community

**Goal**
To broaden our reach and foster a sense of belonging, we aim to build and fortify various community channels like Kakao and Telegram. Our focus will be on increasing engagement, sharing relevant information, and promoting discussions around Celo’s contributions and advancements.

**Execution**
- Establish Community Channels: Create designated spaces on platforms like Kakao and Telegram. These channels will serve as a hub for sharing news, updates, and sparking meaningful discussions about Celo.
- Facilitate Regular Interaction: Engage the community with regular updates, AMA sessions, trivia, and quizzes related to Celo to enhance participation and keep the channels active.
- Community Moderation: Appoint community moderators to maintain a healthy environment, provide timely responses, and manage any potential conflicts within the community.
- Promote Collaborative Projects: Encourage members to participate in collaborative projects, enhancing their understanding of Celo while fostering a stronger sense of community.
- Conduct Meet-ups: Host regular meet-ups to bring the community together, discuss new developments, answer queries, and understand community expectations and suggestions.

### 2.1.3 Milestone 3: PR and Education content

**Goal**
Raise awareness of the ReFi movement in Korea and enhance recognition of Celo as one of the key drivers of this movement. Come up with media coverage around Celo, conduct technical research and provide resources ie: educational content

**Execution**
- Explain the ReFi movement and Celo’s role: Produce and distribute educational content focused on the ReFi movement and Celo’s role within it.
- Organize workshops, seminars, and hackathons: Host workshops, seminars, and hackathons to highlight the benefits of Celo in the context of ReFi, fostering a community of builders.
- Collaborate with educational institutions: Collaborate with educational institutions to incorporate this narrative into their curricula.
- Co-create ReFi research articles: Co-create research articles on ReFi with experts.

### 2.1.4 Milestone 4: Partnerships / Products

**Goal**
Celo Korea will establish strategic partnerships to succeed in the Korean market. To achieve this, Celo Korea will identify suitable partners in the Korean market and work with them to grow in Korea.

**Execution**
- Carbon emission trader community
- Social impact program or company
- Government support programs
- Relevant communities

## 2.2 Budget Details

### 2.2.1 Milestone 1: Content Localization

| Allocation | Breakdown |
| --- | --- |
| $5,000 | Document translation services tailored to Korean language and market nuances |
| $5,000 | Localization of website and other digital assets, including cultural adaptations for the Asia market |
| $5,000 | Development and design of a Korean language blog |
| $3,000 | Management of Korean content and updates |
| $4,000 | Creation and promotion of culturally resonant content on Korean social media channels |

### 2.2.2 Milestone 2: Community Building

| Allocation | Breakdown |
| --- | --- |
| $5,000 | Setup and management of community platforms on Kakao, Telegram, etc. |
| $10,000 | Regular engagement activities (AMAs, quizzes, competitions) tailored for Korean community |
| $10,000 | Creation and promotion of collaborative program to foster stronger community bonds |
| $10,000 | Expenses for physical and online community meet-ups |
| $6,000 | Expenses for marketing promotions for community building activities |

### 2.2.3 Milestone 3: PR and Education Content

| Allocation | Breakdown |
| --- | --- |
| $4,000 | Creation of high-quality Korean PR content highlighting Celo’s activities |
| $4,000 | Development and design of educational resources catered to the Korean market |
| $6,000 | Expenses for conducting workshops, seminars, and hackathons |
| $4,000 | Collaboration with Korean educational institutions for curriculum development |
| $4,000 | Marketing and promotional expenses on Korean media platforms |

### 2.2.4 Milestone 4: Partnerships/Products

| Allocation | Breakdown |
| --- | --- |
| $4,000 | Market research for identifying potential Korean partners |
| $4,000 | Expenses related to establishment of strategic partnerships with Korean entities |
| $5,000 | Partnership with Korean social impact programs or companies |
| $2,000 | Application and processing fees for Korean government support programs |

### 2.2.5 Operational Costs

| Allocation | Breakdown |
| --- | --- |
| $50,000 | 2 full-time employees for 6 months |

# 3. Execution & Operation plan

**Executive Summary**
A brief recap of major milestones and significant changes in our project. Our report will strictly follow the criteria presented by the Celo Foundation ([Celo Grant Playbook | Celo Documentation](https://docs.celo.org/community/grant-playbook))

**Objectives and Key Results (OKRs)**
We will present the summary of our progress according to milestones and quarterly timelines. In terms of community growth, we aim to achieve an impressive increase in the number of active users in Celo. As for developer participation, we will work hard to engage more developers in our projects and we derive a positive response from them. Finally, we will strive to onboard existing/new projects to Celo.

**Financial Report**
We will establish a multisig account for security. We will provide detailed transaction history of our business entity’s crypto and bank account for the sake of transparency in our expenditure of the grant. Our financials will be shared in periodic updates for milestone recap.

**Project Updates**
Information about the status and progress of building local Web3 Dev Community, including the status of onboarded projects and the development of solutions for government and local issues will be shared and reported.

**Community Engagement**
Overview of the growth and activities of our community, including number of active developers, collaborators, and social media followers. Our exposure to the local community will be presented in verifiable form such as press, social media and testimonials.

**Plans for Next Quarter**
We will elaborate on our goals for the upcoming quarter, including potential project conversions and anticipated challenges for execution.

Our aim is to ensure the Celo community remains informed and engaged in our activities and progress. Reports will be shared on our forum for open access and discussion.

**Structure & Multi-Sig**

- **Multisign address:** 0xF737369f79291d8e4aB273bBE5A4669381Cb4715

| Role | Name | Multisig wallet |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Lead / Operations | Hope Lee | TBD |
| Strategy | Alex Shin | TBD |
| Operations | Danny | TBD |
