---
cgp: 125
title: Celo India H1 2024| Regional DAO
date-created: 2024-03-08
author: Chitty Babu, Shaun Joseph (@shaun), Kandasamy Rahunandan, Kundan (@Qaphqa)
status: DRAFT 
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/proposal-for-community-development-in-india-indiadao-community-management
governance-proposal-id:
date-executed:
---


# Celo India H1 2024| Regional DAO

- **Authors:** Chitty Babu, Shaun Joseph, Kandasamy Rahunandan, Kundan
- **Budget Request:** $46,000 cUSD
- **Proposal Type:** CPG Funding Request | Regional DAO

## Summary
This proposal seeks funding for the Celo India DAO for the period from Feb, 2024, to Jun, 2024, amounting to 46,000 cUSD. The primary objective is to create a comprehensive community development program focusing on Web3, emphasizing Celo education, meet-ups, and training. The aim is to empower individuals in India and enhance user adoption through targeted initiatives organized under Two key pillars: Training Programs & Community Meetups

## Motivation
Recognizing the transformative potential of blockchain technology, our team is driven by the desire to empower individuals across diverse demographics, including students, developers, and the general public. CELO’s vision of ‘Prosperity for all’ and its position as a ‘mobile first’ blockchain makes it a perfect fit for India: an emerging market where nearly everyone has a mobile phone but does not have access to financial aid and inclusivity.

## Specifications:
**Focus Area 1: Training Programs**

_Objective:_ Develop training programs aimed at increasing awareness of the Celo blockchain and its potential applications within India. The goal is to empower Indian students and developers through impactful training sessions that deepen their understanding of blockchain technology, with a specific emphasis on the Celo ecosystem.

*   Conducting educational workshops in colleges and universities to provide foundational knowledge about the Celo blockchain and practical skills for utilizing Celo ecosystem applications.
*   Hosting tailored, in-person training sessions for various demographics, including students, entrepreneurs, and policymakers.
*   Developing localized educational materials and resources to ensure widespread accessibility and distribution of crucial information, collaborating with experienced educators to ensure the quality and relevance of training content.
*   Offering resources and assistance for program logistics, marketing, and participant engagement.
    

_Key Performance Indicators:_

*   Organizing a minimum of 10 training programs at colleges/universities.
*   Ensuring each training program has at least 60-100 attendees.
*   Onboard students to Celo ecosystem through wallet downloads.
*   Providing guidance for participation in Celo Hackathons.
*   Encouraging increased participation from
*   Representing Celo in International/National Conferences.
    

**Focus Area 2: Community Meetups**

_Objective:_ Facilitate grassroots-level interactions and networking opportunities for Celo enthusiasts across various cities in India. The objective is to drive increased adoption of Celo among crypto enthusiasts by organizing regular meetups and events.

*   Arrange regular, in-person meetups to facilitate networking and collaboration among crypto enthusiasts.
*   Emphasize the practical applications of blockchain and Celo during these gatherings.
*   Cultivate connections and encourage collaboration within the crypto community at these events.
*   Collaborate with local organizers to amplify the reach and impact of Celo meetups.
*   Establish regional hubs and empower community leaders to autonomously organize regular meetups.
*   Create, manage, and grow community groups/pages on socials to attract and retain supporters.
    

_Key Performance Indicators:_
*   Organize a minimum of 5 meetup events across diverse demographics in India.
*   Onboard at least 5 Celo regional leaders to manage and grow their regional hubs.
*   Ensure each meetup attracts at least 50 attendees. Highlight the practical uses of blockchain and Celo during each meetup.
*   Drive increased participation from India in Celo ecosystem projects.
*   Represent Celo in national/local blockchain events/meetups.
*   500 Celo wallet activations.
*   300 participants across the whole region
*   Increase the online visibility of Celo India (500-1000 new followers across socials)
    

## Operations and Accounting
We want to continue to strive for operational excellence, support the coordination between various Celo Community Treasury-funded groups, and provide clear reporting and accounting.

## Budget
Below is a breakdown of the Celo India DAO budget per category. A more detailed breakdown with estimation and lead per item can be found in this sheet.

### Payment Terms
We propose to receive the budget in two Instalments: the Q1 budget at the start of the proposal and the Q2 budget at the end of March after submitting a Q1 progress report on the Celo Forum.

|Item| Q1 | Q2 |Total|
|----|----|----|-----|
|Training programs & University Outreach|$4,000|$12,000|$16,000|
|  Celo Meet Up Budget  |      $3,000       | $9,000 | $12,000 |
|  Operations, Accounting & Reporting |      2,000       | $6,000 | $8,000 |
|  Social Media/ Website and Community Management  |      $1,500       | $4,500 | $6,000 |
|  Software, Travel, and other Misc  |      $1,000       | $3,000 | $4,000 |
|  Total  |      $11,500       | $34,500 | $46,000 |

Any funds left on June 30th will be returned to the Celo Community Treasury.

## Team
The following people will manage the Celo India DAO and coordinate the resources and budget allocations. A wide range of proven community members will support the team to execute the project plan.
- **NameRoleMulti-Sig**Chitty BabuCommunity Lead, Training & EducationYesKandasamy RaghunandanTechnical Support & DevelopmentYesShaun JosephSocial Media & Business RelationsYesKundan KumarProgram Coordination & Impact Reporting
- **Chitty Babu –** _A Celo Camp Batch 4 participant, serves as a dedicated Celo Ambassador for India, committed to fostering long-term growth and adoption of Celo’s transformative technology in the region.__Celo Projects:_ _Blockcash.finance, Autocomp.finance_
- **Kandasamy Raghunandan –** _A Celo Camp Batch 4 member, showcases expertise as a Celo Devpost Hackathon winner. Passionate about the Celo ecosystem, Rahunandan collaborates on various projects within the Celo community, driving innovation and progress.__Celo projects:_ _Node Wallet, Blockcash.finance, Autocomp.finance_
- **Shaun Joseph –** _Active supporter, served as a regional Ambassador creating lines of communication and engagement for Celo. Worked closely with Valora wallet & FiatConnect. Crypto On/Off ramps specialist. A passionate and active member of the Celo Ecosystem.__Celo Projects_ _: SwapBittsa, AlphaFortress_
- **Kundan Kumar** – _Active supporter and leader in Celo regional and grassroot communities. Spearheaded regional Celo community events. Passionate about ReFi and Climate Initiatives._

## Resources
- Twitter – [https://twitter.com/Celo_India ](https://twitter.com/Celo_India)
- Telegram - [IndiaDAO students community_ 2](https://t.me/+oa8Vf3A7D-BiNjQ1)
- Governance Call - [https://github.com/celo-org/governance/issues/380_ 1](https://github.com/celo-org/governance/issues/380)
