---
cgp: 44
title: Increasing Mento Bucket Sizes for cUSD and cEUR
date-created: 2021-10-28
author: '@martinvol, @rcroessmann'
status: EXECUTED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/economic-parameters-bucket-sizes-and-reserve-allocation-cgp-40-cgp-43/1997
governance-proposal-id: 55
date-executed: '[if executed] <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>'
---

## Overview

This Governance proposal aims to reduce the slippage incurred when trading Celo stable assets, that is cUSD and cEUR, via the Celo stability mechanism (often referred to as Mento). All else equal, a reduction of the Mento slippage, which can be achieved via an increase of the Mento `reserveFraction` parameter, can be expected to tighten the arbitrage bounds on the cUSD/USD and cEUR/EUR pairs (collectively referred to as cXXX/XXX in this proposal).

Mento allows users to create or burn Celo stable assets by trading the cUSD/CELO and cEUR/CELO pairs with the reserve. It uses a constant-product-market-maker model to mitigate the depletion potential of the reserve by dynamically adjusting the on-chain price to one-sided trading. For more background on Mento, please refer to the [documentation](https://docs.celo.org/celo-codebase/protocol/stability).

The `reserveFraction` parameter, which can be set for cEUR and cUSD individually, allows to control the sensitivity of the Mento prices to one-sided trading. The smaller this parameter, the smaller the resulting Mento bucket sizes and therefore the larger the price reaction to one-sided trading. 
The main benefit of choosing a low `reserveFraction` is that this reduces the depletion potential of the reserve should there be imprecise CELO/USD oracle rates and/or manipulated CELO/USD market prices. This is because the Mento cXXX/CELO price adjusts quickly to one-sided trading if Mento buckets are small.
The main downside of a low `reserveFraction` parameter is wider arbitrage bounds on cXXX/XXX prices. For more background on the effects of the `reserveFraction` parameter, please see the [Celo Stability Analysis](https://celo.org/papers/Celo_Stability_Analysis.pdf), especially sections 4.3.2 and 4.3.3.

We propose to increase the `reserveFraction` parameters to adjust the above tradeoff to the current market environment, that is an increased demand for cUSD and cEUR as well as increased CELO market liquidity.

### Status
  
In governance proposal [CGP008](https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/cgp-0008.md), the `reserveFraction parameter` for the cUSD/CELO Mento pair was increased from 0.1% to 0.5% and has remained at that level since then. The cEUR/CELO `reserveFraction` parameter was set to 0.13% via [CGP008](https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/d8e8dc1cd9882db4c6112b4a6c8e6e93e0e69311/CGPs/cgp-0022.md). Both of these values were set in an attempt to solve the tradeoff between a strong protection of the Celo reserve and tight arbitrage bounds on the stable asset prices in the best way possible at the time. 

## Proposed Changes

We propose to increase the `reserveFraction` parameter for cUSD from 0.5% to 1.0% and for cEUR from 0.13% to 0.5%. All else equal, this should roughly double (quadruple) the daily expansion amounts of cUSD (cEUR) that can be minted at less than a 1% cost.

1. Set cUSD `reserveFraction` to 1.0%
  - Destination: Exchange (Proxy: 0x67316300f17f063085Ca8bCa4bd3f7a5a3C66275; Implementation: 0xEDF3F7e01037e4583de2659C5e243621Ea2501A4),`Exchange.setReserveFraction`
  - Data: 10000000000000000000000 (1/100 * 10^24 = 1e22)
  - Value: 0 (NA)

2. Set cEUR `reserveFraction` to 0.5%
  - Destination: ExchangeEUR (Proxy: 0xE383394B913d7302c49F794C7d3243c429d53D1d; Implementation: 0x622833AB6E9501C9072d2c706c60AaB5Ff0234d9),`Exchange.setReserveFraction`
  - Data: 5000000000000000000000 (5/1000 * 10^24 = 5e21)
  - Value: 0 (NA)

## Verification

1. Confirm proposal steps: run `celocli governance:view --proposalID X` // TODO add proposal ID once submitted proposal
2. Confirm Exchange (cUSD) and ExchangeEUR (cEUR) addresses: run `celocli network:contracts`

## Risks

* Oracle rate risk: In case of imprecise CELO/USD oracle rates and/or manipulated CELO/USD market rates, users could exchange cUSD or CELO with the reserve at a price that does not reflect the current market valuation. The increased `reserveFraction` parameter would lead to a larger loss of the reserve in such a case. The equivalent argument holds for cEUR and the CELO/EUR rate.

## Useful Links

* [Mento Documentation](https://docs.celo.org/celo-codebase/protocol/stability/doto)
* [The Celo Expansion & Contraction Mechanism](https://medium.com/celoorg/zooming-in-on-the-celo-expansion-contraction-mechanism-446ca7abe4f)
* [Celo Stability Whitepaper](https://celo.org/papers/stability)
* [Exchange Smart Contract Source Code](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/blob/master/packages/protocol/contracts/stability/Exchange.sol)