---
cgp: 0063P
title: Learn to Earn 
date-created: 2022-11-06
author: 'Débora Conconi (@deboraconconi)' 
status: DRAFT 
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/proposal-cgp-63-learn-to-earn-campaign-with-creal-and-celo-in-brazil/4772
governance-proposal-id: '[if submitted]'
date-executed: '[if executed] <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>'
---
## Overview


## Introduction
The advance of cryptocurrencies in Latin America grew between July 2021 and July 2022, a period in which the region received US$ 562 billion in cryptocurrencies, a number 40% higher than last year's total. The survey, conducted by Chainalysis using also MercadoBitcoin data shows that Latin America is home to five of the top thirty countries in the cryptocurrency index, including Brazil, which appears in the first place with almost US$ 150 billion.
To get an idea of ​​the driving force that Brazil represents for Latin America in terms of transactions involving cryptocurrencies, especially retail investors who, according to the document, were responsible for the largest share of growth in the region, transfers made by professional players in this segment, between US$ 10 thousand and US$ 1 million, represented more than 60% of the total volume of negotiations, while the rest of Latin America did not reach 40%.
The percentage presented in the report took into account the volume of transactions on the platform of the Brazilian cryptocurrency exchange Mercado Bitcoin (MB), which also surpassed transactions related to small, less than US$ 1 thousand, and large retail investors, between US$ 1,000 and $10,000, although it has lagged behind when it comes to institutional investors.
We believe that one of the key points to make sure this growth is stable and durable is to increase awareness and education in the markets. While web3 is growing, it is relevant to onboard new users in the ecosystem by means of appropriate educational and awareness initiatives. 
Besides educating the Brazilian market and democratizing access to new and exciting technologies, we believe that an increase in awareness and knowledge of the CELO ecosystem could boost its liquidity locally, tackling one of the main challenges of the community as a whole ([source](https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/cgp-0049.md)).


## Proposal
Hello dear Celo community! My name is Débora Conconi, and I am part of Mercado Bitcoin, one of the  largest exchanges in Latin America.
In an effort to bring more transparency and get community feedback on the initiatives we are working on, we would like to share with you all some of the projects that we believe have synergy with Celo and its community.
We seek to give access to Celo's projects to the almost 4 million Brazilians registered on the MB platform, and adoption throughout Brazil and the Celo community.


## Objective
Connect with Celo and its projects, giving visibility to Mercado Bitcoin customers and the Celo Brasil Community.
Also, more users could be onboarded to the Celo ecosystem which could prove to be another driver of adoption for its dapps and use cases.


## About Mercado Bitcoin 
Mercado Bitcoin is an exchange that operates in Brazil, with a focus on Latin America and has more than 3.8 million customers and more than 200 digital assets, including NFTs.
 - We are among the most trusted exchanges in the world. 
 - Pioneer of the KYC and AML best practices in the Brazilian market
 - More than  USD 15 billion in trading volume since our foundation in 2013.
 - More than 8 years as custodian without material security breaches
 - Mercado Bitcoin is a multi-solutions crypto, blockchain, web 3 and regulatory infrastructure, building the future of the new digital economy.
 - Became part of the select unicorn startups group in LatAm and the only Brazilian Company among the 102  Blockchain unicorns in the world after investments led by  Softbank (source).
 - As part of the group, we proudly have Blockchain Academy, our education arm that is continuously looking for innovation and new ways to bring web3 to retail and institutions.
 - Currently in partnership and support with the government authorities  in building the regulation of the cryptocurrency sector in Brazil.


Site: https://www.mercadobitcoin.com.br/en/

## Projects
### Celo asset listing
Listing of the CELO asset on the Mercado Bitcoin platform for more than 3.8 million customers to negotiate the purchase and sale of the asset.

### cReal asset listing
Listing of the cReal asset on the Mercado Bitcoin platform for more than 3.8 million customers to negotiate the purchase and sale of the asset, in addition to being the reward offered in the Learn to Earn program.

### Learn to earn program
MB will be the 1st exchange in Latin America to offer an educational rewards program for users from all over Brazil to learn more about crypto assets and earn assets, which is directly aligned with the LatAm Celo community needs of usability and circulation of cReal.

### What?
Learn to Earn is an educational program where each user can receive cryptocurrency rewards after watching and answering questions about the specific network or asset. The purpose of Learn to Earn is to provide knowledge to users who participate in the program in order to learn more about the Celo ecosystem and its projects. In this way, the user will have more knowledge about the crypto market and about the protocol, purposes and principles of the network.

#### How it works?
We intend to educate Mercado Bitcoin customers, with quality content developed in partnership with Celo, making the cReal and Celo assets available as a reward for each completed program.
Each user will be able to watch videos and then answer a quiz with questions about the content watched.
Then, the user will receive a reward within the Mercado Bitcoin platform, being able to use their wallet the way they want.


#### Reward distribution:
10 cReal for each user for studying cReal program content and 3 Celo for each user for studying  Celo program content.



#### What are the criteria to participate in Learn-to-Earn?
For anyone who has been approved in the appropriate KYC process in Mercado Bitcoin platforms. 


## Budget:
This CGP is requesting 228.000 Celo and 1.000.000 cREAL  from the on-chain governance Community Fund.
The funds will be divided into: 
 - Learn to Earn rewards
 - Internal and external marketing costs, for the dissemination of the Learn to Earn program, on the main press and social media platforms, in addition to the technical efforts required to supporting  Celo and cREAL.

The distribution model is detailed in the tables below.

**Disclaimer:** Distribution and marketing cells (highlighted) are fixed numbers. Celo amount can change due to CELO/BRL price changes between the proposal itself and the distribution of funds.


| CELO         | Distribution | Active quantity | Total BRL| Total USD |
|--------------|--------------|-----------------|-----------|------------|
| Total        |              | 228000          | 600000 |          114000  |
| Marketing  | `33%`       | 76000     | `200000`  |     38000       |
| L2E Reward   | `66%`       | 152000     | 400000  |    76000        |
| Celo/USD     | 0.5         |                 |           |            |

| CREAL        | Distribution | Active quantity | Total BRL | Total USD |
|--------------|--------------|-----------------|-----------|------------|
| Total        |              | 1000000         | 1000000 |      190000      |
| Marketing  | `20%`       | 200000     | `200000`  |      38000      |
| L2E Reward   | `80%`       | 800000     | 800000 |     152000       |
| cREAL/USD    | 0.19       |                 |           |            |


| Total CELO | Total CREAL | 
|-----------|------------|
| 228000 | 1000000 |


## Timeline
Listing of Celo scheduled for Q1/23<br />
CReal listing scheduled for Q1/23<br />
Learn to Earn Program with CReal reward: Q1/23<br />

## Disclaimer
To protect the bearish price action initiative, we are considering values of USD 0.5 for CELO and USD 0.19 for cREAL. If the market value of the goods is higher than the values practiced at the time the proposal is made and passed on to the address, the excess value will be distributed 100% to customers as a reward under the Learning to Win program. If the market price of the assets is lower than these values, a smaller amount of CELO and cREAL will be distributed within the scope of the program as a reward to the user.

Discussion link https://forum.celo.org/t/proposal-cgp-63-learn-to-earn-campaign-with-creal-and-celo-in-brazil/4772/19
