---
cgp: 102
title: Adding RedStone as oracle provider
date-created: 2023-09-28
author: 'Matt Gurbiel (@mattgurbiel, matt@redstone.finance)'
---
## Overview

This proposal is to enable [RedStone](https://redstone.finance/) as one of the oracle providers for [Mento](https://docs.celo.org/celo-codebase/protocol/stability/doto#what-is-mento). RedStone would deliver price data for CELO/USD, CELO/EUR, CELO/BRL, USDC/USD, USDC/EUR, USDC/BRL, EUROC/EUR. RedStone will replace Di Wu in the current set of oracle providers, as he has expressed his willingness to step down from the role.

## Background

**About RedStone**

[RedStone](https://redstone.finance/) is a novel Oracle for projects in need of flexible data feeds with frequent update time (<10 sec) - usually, it resonates well with Lending Protocols, Perpetual DEXes, Liquidity Management, Stablecoin protocols and projects responding to market trends. We’ve been live since March 2022, securing hundreds of millions of USD on mainnets. Audited by ABDK, PeckShield and independent auditors.
We are now cooperating with some of the most important protocols in the web3 ecosystem, including Lido, Venus, Pendle, Gamma, Swell, Stader, Raft, Gearbox, DeltaPrime, Angle, Sommelier and many more. The company is backed by [top VC funds](https://twitter.com/redstone_defi/status/1564553885695373312), including Blockchain Capital, Distributed Global, Lemniscap or Coinbase Ventures as well as [prominent Builders](https://twitter.com/redstone_defi/status/1661024722690379778) such as Stani Kulechov (Founder of Aave), Sandeep Nailwal (Co-Founder Polygon), Emin Gün Sirer (Co-Founder Avalanche), Alex Gluchovski (Co-Founder zkSync) and others.

**RedStone on Celo**

RedStone is no stranger to the Celo ecosystem: 
* RedStone [won the Interoperability track](https://devpost.com/software/redstone-oracle-on-celo) at Celo Make Crypto Mobile 2021 hackathon and has been incubated in the Celo Camp program,
* RedStone co-sponsored one of the 2022 Celo hackathons, with submissions such as [Cashout](https://he-s3.s3.amazonaws.com/media/sprint/celo-hackathon/team/1579490/e343c23cashout_pitchdeck.pdf) ([Demo](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Oxmd0XB62XxKfqRDfVnKJB2LBil7fog4/view)) and [Sarau](https://he-s3.s3.amazonaws.com/media/sprint/celo-hackathon/team/1577575/743c218sarau.pdf) ([Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MaNPwQCCjwE&ab_channel=IsraelBuzaym)),
* RedStone has been successfully running and testing a relayer compatible with Celo's SortedOracles on Alfajores since March 2023,
* RedStone Core has been available for dApps since March 2022.

**RedStone and Mento**

At RedStone we have been staying very hands-on with the Mento Team as well as the newest developments to the protocol and we want to continue to do so. The goal is to actively support Mento’s path to further decentralization and maximal security. 
Today we would like to open the discussion about adding RedStone to Mento’s SortedOracles Interface. 
We also look at this proposal as laying the foundation for potential future cooperation, especially in adding security and resilience to Mento’s oracle setup.

**Value RedStone brings to the table** 
* **Most importantly - Increased security**:
Nodes operating in standard oracle networks do not publicly reveal their Data Sources and Data Aggregation methodology. RedStone offers a different approach, focusing on transparency in terms of Data Sources and Data Aggregation methods as well as adjusting these parameters to Mento’s specific use case and risk profile.
* **Increased decentralisation**:
DeFi ecosystem is built on the premise of decentralisation & permissionless design. we are convinced that adding more redundancy on that front is essential. Including more high-quality providers in the oracle suite means more decentralisation in such a crucial area as pricing data.
* **Tailoring the Oracle Infrastructure to Mento’s needs**:
Never the other way round. RedStone focuses on custom solutions and working shoulder-to-shoulder with Builders. For Mento this would mean a lot of flexibility in terms of integration e.g. a spectrum of customisation options regarding off-chain and on-chain aggregation methods, as well as picking Data Providers they trust or adjusting the Heartbeat and Deviation Threshold parameters per each Price Feed. 
* **Hands-on support**:
We have a complete end2end approach, minimising the effort needed from the protocol’s side to finalise the integration. This includes things like dedicated support, running and maintaining custom Relayers pushing the prices on chain and other forms of making the integration and maintenance seamless.
* **Future cooperation opportunities**:
Making novel use cases possible, and unlocking maximal composability and capital efficiency for the Users is at the heart of what we do at RedStone. Forms of future cooperation can include working on custom data aggregation mechanisms, methods of injecting data to the chain, risk mitigation mechanisms etc. going towards the next versions of the protocol in the future.

**Costs** 

For the 7 proposed Feeds RedStone would receive $2000/month + a lump payment of $6000 if the service meets performance requirements in the first 3 months.

Payment to RedStone would be done according to the same terms outlined in the contract for other external oracle providers - https://forum.celo.org/t/decentralized-oracles/3610/18 , specifically:

_5.2. One time compensation_

_The Celo Community Fund will pay an initial one time compensation of 6000 USD for the
initial set up of the up to 5 oracle services, if the oracle service provided by the MMS fulfils the expected quality within the first three months of initial setup as described in section 2.1. b and c of this proposal. In addition, the Celo Community Fund will conduct an initial compensation of 300 USD each for any further oracle service implemented with the same conditions._

_5.3. Monthly compensation_

_1. Tier 1: Up to 5 oracle feeds - $1500 / month_ 

_2. Tier 2: Up to 10 oracle feeds - $2000 / month_

_3. Tier 3: more than 10 oracle feeds $2500 / month_

_4. Tier 4: more than 15 oracle feeds - can be described in a new proposal.
These payments will be at the end of the month for each month passed._



## Proposed Changes

1. Remove Di Wu as CELO/USD oracle

- Destination: Disable one address to report to CELO/USD
- Data: `SortedOracles.removeOracle(cUSD address = 0x765DE816845861e75A25fCA122bb6898B8B1282a, Di Wu oracle = 0xF8ffaB8cCB81BcD0DF7f9dF97Ccf8bEF782ebEeB, oracle index = 8)`
- Value: 0

2. Enable RedStone as CELO/USD oracle

- Destination: Enabling one address to report to CELO/USD
- Data: `SortedOracles.addOracle(cUSD address = 0x765DE816845861e75A25fCA122bb6898B8B1282a, RedStone adapter = 0x6490a3FFAD86CA14FF84Be380D5639Fb8fBD311B)`
- Value: 0

3. Remove Di Wu as CELO/EUR oracle

- Destination: Disable one address to report to CELO/EUR
- Data: `SortedOracles.removeOracle(cEUR address = 0xD8763CBa276a3738E6DE85b4b3bF5FDed6D6cA73, Di Wu oracle = 0x3F2691d5B4839c226f4Bd096DC744914cAD5737e, oracle index = 8)`
- Value: 0

4. Enable RedStone as CELO/EUR oracle

- Destination: Enabling one address to report to CELO/EUR
- Data: `SortedOracles.addOracle(cEUR address = 0xD8763CBa276a3738E6DE85b4b3bF5FDed6D6cA73, RedStone adapter = 0x6490a3FFAD86CA14FF84Be380D5639Fb8fBD311B)`
- Value: 0

5. Remove Di Wu as CELO/BRL oracle

- Destination: Disable one address to report to CELO/BRL
- Data: `SortedOracles.removeOracle(cREAL address = 0xe8537a3d056DA446677B9E9d6c5dB704EaAb4787, Di Wu oracle = 0x4eb4571a475Bea99b6A735B89aae664b82c964a3, oracle index = 8)`
- Value: 0

6. Enable RedStone as CELO/BRL oracle

- Destination: Enabling one address to report to CELO/BRL
- Data: `SortedOracles.addOracle(cREAL address = 0xe8537a3d056DA446677B9E9d6c5dB704EaAb4787, RedStone adapter = 0x6490a3FFAD86CA14FF84Be380D5639Fb8fBD311B)`
- Value: 0

7. Remove Di Wu as USDC/USD oracle

- Destination: Disable one address to report to USDC/USD
- Data: `SortedOracles.removeOracle(USDC/USD identifier = 0xA1A8003936862E7a15092A91898D69fa8bCE290c, Di Wu oracle = 0x504C282C98fe9E7627DCE2c255E3BfF2eeB6e73e, oracle index = 8)`
- Value: 0

8. Enable RedStone as USDC/USD oracle

- Destination: Enabling one address to report to USDC/USD
- Data: `SortedOracles.addOracle(USDC/USD identifier = 0xA1A8003936862E7a15092A91898D69fa8bCE290c, RedStone adapter = 0x6490a3FFAD86CA14FF84Be380D5639Fb8fBD311B)`
- Value: 0

9. Remove Di Wu as USDC/EUR oracle

- Destination: Disable one address to report to USDC/EUR
- Data: `SortedOracles.removeOracle(USDC/EUR identifier = 0x206b25ea01e188ee243131afde526ba6e131a016, Di Wu oracle = 0xBc2F9D199491786A4c68850B6438b8B5eE985735, oracle index = 8)`
- Value: 0

10. Enable RedStone as USDC/EUR oracle

- Destination: Enabling one address to report to USDC/EUR
- Data: `SortedOracles.addOracle(USDC/EUR identifier = 0x206b25ea01e188ee243131afde526ba6e131a016, RedStone adapter = 0x6490a3FFAD86CA14FF84Be380D5639Fb8fBD311B)`
- Value: 0

11. Remove Di Wu as USDC/BRL oracle

- Destination: Disable one address to report to USDC/BRL
- Data: `SortedOracles.removeOracle(USDC/BRL identifier = 0x25f21a1f97607edf6852339fad709728cffb9a9d, Di Wu oracle = 0xBcBDd157e2d9737049eb3a8aFbC58b725523d002, oracle index = 8)`
- Value: 0

12. Enable RedStone as USDC/BRL oracle

- Destination: Enabling one address to report to USDC/BRL
- Data: `SortedOracles.addOracle(USDC/BRL identifier = 0x25f21a1f97607edf6852339fad709728cffb9a9d, RedStone adapter = 0x6490a3FFAD86CA14FF84Be380D5639Fb8fBD311B)`
- Value: 0

13. Remove Di Wu as EUROC/EUR oracle

- Destination: Disable one address to report to EUROC/EUR
- Data: `SortedOracles.removeOracle(EUROC/EUR identifier = 0x26076b9702885d475ac8c3db3bd9f250dc5a318b, Di Wu oracle = 0xBD136a625299A0ac5Ca7Ce9220aCA6e08a624e37, oracle index = 9)`
- Value: 0

14. Enable RedStone as EUROC/EUR oracle

- Destination: Enabling one address to report to EUROC/EUR
- Data: `SortedOracles.addOracle(EUROC/EUR identifier = 0x26076b9702885d475ac8c3db3bd9f250dc5a318b, RedStone adapter = 0x6490a3FFAD86CA14FF84Be380D5639Fb8fBD311B)`
- Value: 0

## Verification

A human readable version of this proposal can be found using the following command (on-chain ID determined after submission):

celocli governance:show --proposalID <tbd>

## Links

- [RedStone Website](https://redstone.finance/)
- [Data Feeds](https://app.redstone.finance/)
- [Docs](https://docs.redstone.finance/)
- [Angel Round Announcement](https://twitter.com/redstone_defi/status/1661024722690379778)
- [Seed Round Announcement](https://twitter.com/redstone_defi/status/1564553885695373312)
