---
cgp: 0166
title: Contracts Release 12
date-created: 2024-02-17
author: cLabs Primivites Team
status: DRAFT
discussions-to:
governance-proposal-id:
date-executed:
---
 
## Overview
 
In this governance proposal, we propose to execute the Celo Core Contracts Upgrade Release 11. This release follows the [release process](https://docs.celo.org/community/release-process/smart-contracts).

Changes that are being proposed in this release are described in [this Github release](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/releases/tag/core-contracts.v12). Trail of Bits has completed an code audit of this release, and the tooling provided ensures the version control references included in the report match the contract deployment described in the proposal content.

This update includes adding compatibility to the upcoming transition to become a L2 using the [Optimism Stack](https://docs.celo.org/cel2/whats-changed/op-l2).
 
 
## Proposed Changes
 
Deprecated contracts:
1. `GasPriceMinimum.sol`: `1.2.0.1` => `1.2.1.0`
2. `FeeCurrencyWhitelist.sol`: `1.1.1.0` => `1.1.2.0`
3. `BlockchainParameters.sol`: `1.3.0.0` => `1.3.1.0`
4. `DoubleSigningSlasher.sol`: `1.1.1.0` => `1.1.1.1`
5. `Random.sol`: `1.1.1.0` => `(1.1.2.0)` 

New contracts:

1. `CeloUnreleasedTreasury.sol`: N/A => `1.1.0.0`
2. `EpochManager.sol`: N/A => `1.1.0.0`
3. `EpochManagerEnabler.sol`: N/A => `1.1.0.0`
4. `FeeCurrencyDirectory.sol`: N/A => `1.1.0.0`
6. `MentoFeeCurrencyAdapter.sol`: N/A => `1.1.0.0`
7. `ScoreManager.sol`: N/A => `1.1.0.0`

Updated contracts:
1. `Validators.sol`: `1.2.0.5` => `1.3.0.0`
2. `Accounts.sol`: `(1.1.4.1` => `1.1.2.4`
3. `FeeHandler.sol`: `1.1.0.0` => `1.2.0.0`
4. `GoldToken.sol`: `1.1.2.0` => `1.1.3.0`
5. `MentoFeeHandlerSeller.sol`: `1.1.0.0` => `1.1.1.0`
6. `UniswapFeeHandlerSeller.sol`: `1.1.0.0` => `2.0.0.0`
7. `DowntimeSlasher.sol`: `2.0.0.0` => `2.0.0.1`
8. . `Election.sol`: `1.1.3.0` => `1.1.4.0`
9. `EpochRewards.sol`: `1.1.1.0` => `1.1.2.0`
10. `Governance.sol`: `1.4.1.0` => `1.4.2.0`
11. `GovernanceSlasher.sol`: `1.1.0.0` => `1.1.1.0`
12. `LockedGold.sol`: `1.1.4.0` => `1.1.5.0`
13. `Attestations.sol`: `1.2.0.0` => `1.3.0.0`
14. `SortedOracles.sol`: `1.1.3.0` => `1.1.4.0`
 
## Verification
 
First, make sure to download latest [celo-monorepo](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/) with

`$ git clone git@github.com:celo-org/celo-monorepo.git --branch release/core-contracts/12`

And a version of the cli compatible with this contract release, you can install it with:

`$ npm instal -g  @celo/celocli@`

Then build the project it with:

`$ yarn && yarn build`

Once built, `cd` to the protocol folder with:

`$ cd packages/protocol`

From there, you can download the current proposal:

```bash
$ celocli governance:show --proposalID $PROPOSAL_ID --jsonTransactions release-12-proposal.json --node https://forno.celo.org
```

And then verify that the proposal deployment matches the audited release:

```
yarn verify-release -p release-12-proposal.json -b core-contracts.v11 -n mainnet -f -i "releaseData/initializationData/release12.json"
```

The output should verify that the bytecodes and storages match what is expected, it should look something like this:

```
Success, no bytecode mismatches found!
Writing linked library addresses to libraries.json
✨  Done in 30.86s.
```
 
## Risks
 
Celo Core Contracts are critical for the functioning of the Celo Platform. While cLabs have invested significant efforts to expand testing and verification tooling, and a third party audit has been completed, errors in this proposal could lead to situations that are only recoverable with a very difficult hard fork.

 
## Useful Links

- [Celo Core Contracts Release Process](https://docs.celo.org/community/release-process/smart-contracts)
- [Github release notes](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/releases/tag/core-contracts.v11)
- Audit reports: 
  1. [Celo L2 - Trail of Bits.pdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/18804807/Celo.L2.-.Trail.of.Bits.pdf)
  2. Immunefi (TBD)
