---
cgp: 140
title: Celo L2 off-chain data availability layer, powered by EigenLayer and EigenDA
date-created: 2024-06-27
author: cLabs Blockchain & Primitives teams
status: EXECUTED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/clabs-proposes-off-chain-data-availability-layer-powered-by-eigenlayer-and-eigenda/8236
governance-proposal-id:181
date-executed: 2024-07-09
---

 
## Overview

Following a recent Forum post from cLabs, the community is requested to weigh in and vote on Celo's L2 off-chain data availability layer, powered by EigenLayer and EigenDA

A "Yes" vote will denote agreeing to use "EigenDA". A "No" vote will denote not using "EigenDA". An "Abstain" vote will denote neither agreeing to nor disagreeing with either option, but instead will help to achieve the minimum needed level of quorum needed to pass a resolution.

### Why should an off-chain data availability layer, powered by EigenLayer and EigenDA be chosen?

The Celo Foundation and EigenLayer teams have solidified a partnership to support the long-term growth of Celo’s Layer-2 ecosystem. This agreement includes Eigen Foundation’s first strategic grant, allocated to the Celo Foundation. The grant will fund cLabs’ ongoing development of the Celo Layer-2 and to support ecosystem projects that leverage the DA solution.

By utilizing Ethereum validators’ re-staked ETH, EigenDA provides a secure, decentralized, and cost-effective data availability layer.

## Proposed Changes

No on-chain changes, this is a temperature check proposal.

## Verification

This command should show a proposal with no transactions:

`$ celocli governance:show --proposalID 181 --node https://forno.celo.org`

## Risks

1. This is an offchain DA layer, meaning that it provides less economic security than Ethereum as only DA commitments and not whole data stored on L1. This is a risk inherent to any offchain solution and we are conciously making this choice in order to be able to lower DA costs and hence transaction fees.
2. EigenDA Disperser is a service operated by EigenLabs. Although this service doesn't require trust, it represents a single point of failure. Based on our conversations with the EigenDA team, there is an ongoing effort of making the disperser a decentralized service.
3. EigenDA operators are collectively trusted and currently there is no proof of custody. Data availability sampling or any other mechanism protecting from the problem of a lazy operator is currently not implemented. There is long-term plan to implement Proof of Custody by forcing operators to routinely compute and commit the value of a function which can only be computed if they have stored all the blob chunks allocated to them over a designated storage period.

## Useful Links

1. [cLabs proposal](https://forum.celo.org/t/clabs-proposes-off-chain-data-availability-layer-powered-by-eigenlayer-and-eigenda/8236)
2. [Celo Foundation blog post](https://blog.celo.org/eigen-foundation-allocates-first-strategic-grant-to-celo-foundation-core-contributor-clabs-1363226cdb37)
