---
cgp: 83
title: Establishing creatives community
date-created: 2023-06-21
author: 'Shola @sholasparks'
status: PROPOSED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/proposal-establishing-creatives-community/5974
governance-proposal-id: 'if submitted'
date-executed: 'if executed'
---

# Overview

Greetings everyone,
I am Shola, a creative director/artist with a decade of global collaboration experience. I am passionate about bridging the gap between creative art and the decentralised web. Leveraging web3 and the CELO ecosystem, I believe we can revolutionise art expression. My web3 journey started 2 years ago when I was opportune to served as a council in Blaqk Stereo DAO, and since my time there we have achieved some remarkable milestones amongst which is a Guinness World Record with @hawwal as team lead (View relevant links below :point_down:t5:)

https://www.pulse.ng/entertainment/music/nigerian-actor-hawwal-ogungbadero-others-set-guinness-world-record/pmwm790#:~:text=Nigerian%20actor%2Dcum%2Dentrepreneur%2C,of%20the%20Guinness%20World%20Record

https://www.youtube.com/@sholasparks3085

https://www.gospelnaija.com/music/never-failed-shola-agent-snypa

In recent times, The market for creative art NFTs on platforms like OpenSea sees a weekly trading volume in the hundreds of thousands of dollars. This trend reflects the growing integration of blockchain technology with music and arts. The ERC20 blockchain has emerged as a frontrunner in enabling the tokenisation of creativity, offering new possibilities for artists and listeners alike. However, there is still room for expansion and we intend exploring a dedicated division in the creative art industry which is creativity through the art of “Dance”. The potential for dance artists and other forms of creative artists to find their place within the Celo ecosystem is vast, presenting limitless opportunities for financial inclusivity and community development within the Celo ecosystem.

https://musictech.com/news/artists-selling-music-nft-making-millions/

# Challenge Definition:
The absence of a dedicated creative community within the Celo ecosystem is a noticeable gap in the decentralised finance landscape. While Celo has made significant strides in promoting financial inclusion, a dedicated platform for creative artists is lacking. Such a community could enable artists to showcase and sell their work, connect with patrons, and receive fair compensation for their creative endeavours. By incorporating a place for creatives, Celo could further expand its user base, foster artistic expression, and contribute to the overall vibrancy and diversity of the ecosystem.

# Market size & demographics:

→Notably, dance acts accounted for 39% of all festival bookings in 2022, up 6% from 2021 link

→In 2021, the number of participants in dance, step, and other choreographed exercise amounted to approximately 24.75 million. link 1

→ Africas population is estimated at over 1.4 billion people & equivalent to 16.72% of total world population. worldometer

→ average population of youths measuring at 70% of Africa’s population link

→ in recent survey, The population of creative artists in Africa is estimated to be at a ratio of 1:8 in relation to the entire youth population

→ Africa is often divided into five regions: Northern Africa (7 countries), Western Africa (15 countries), Eastern Africa (18 countries), Central Africa (9 countries), and Southern Africa (6 countries) total of 55 nations.

# CXA: CELO X ART:
Our team, actively working in the Celo ecosystem, is coming together with our skills, knowledge, and network to bridge this gap through an initiative called CELO X ART (CXA).

CXA was created from these two separate words “Celo” and “Art”. CXA or Celo X Art is the establishment of an art community within the Celo community building a platform where creatives can build and grow exponentially within the Celo ecosystem.

# Goal:
The CXA project aims to empower artists in the CELO ecosystem through a community-driven platform.
By leveraging CELO’s cutting-edge technologies, it will facilitate cooperative efforts, provide resources for artistic expression, tokenisation, and collaborations among community members. This initiative will also educate and encourage creatives to interact with CELO’s DApps and marketplaces, fostering creativity, inclusiveness, and positive impact on the growth of the CELO ecosystem.

# Implementation:

The project will be executed in two phases, and we are seeking 215,808 CELO at the time of writing this proposal, to bring phase 1 to fruition.

# DURATION:
Phase1 = July - November 2023
Phase 2 = December

# Phase 1
For this first season, we will focus on music and dance, involving hosting contests that will also double as awareness concerts across various regions, starting in Africa and expanding to other regions. After these contest, a workshop training will ensue, training these creatives on CELO ecosystem opportunities, advantages of our DApps and market places.

# Phase 2
we aim to leverage on all built and amassed from phase 1 to create a framework and structure which will be used to facilitate the establishment and management of the CXA DAO of which reports along side with a well detailed proposal will submitted for review. The creatives from the CXA project will be grass-root agents in their respective regions, spreading the vision and adopting more creatives into CELO ecosystem.

We aim on monitoring their progress through weekly meetings on our discord group channel sharing our progress report and collaborating on initiatives/strategies for further expansion in the CELO ecosystem. Future plans include spreading from Africa into other regions, revolutionising art expression and tokenisation through celo.
Phase 2 is primarily the establishment of the CXA DAO of which its sole purpose will be for the educating and empowerment of creative artist in the celo ecosystem.

# PROCESS:
Two prominent events will be organised in Africa to host a diverse range of artists from various regions. The first event will take place in Nigeria, welcoming contestants from both West and East Africa. The second event will be held in South Africa, bringing together participants from Northern, Southern, and Central Africa.

To ensure broad artist engagement, we will adopt a grassroots approach by networking directly with music bands and dance groups. This direct connection with leaders and coordinators of these groups will provide us access to the entire collective, minimising time and cost associated with event promotion. Additionally, this engagement will serve as an opportunity to educate them about the values of the Celo ecosystem.

Our aim is to network with a diverse range of artists, including soloists, music bands, instrumentalists, and various types of dancers such as ballet dancers, contemporary dancers, hip hop dancers, and contortionists. These artists will bring their unique artistry to synergise with African music, creating captivating performances and showcasing the cultural richness of the continent.

To foster community engagement and encourage the utilisation of our decentralised applications (dApps), we will implement a strategy prior to the contest and during the mid-concert. Interested contestants will be onboarded and invited to purchase non-fungible tokens (NFTs), create artwork, and mint them as NFTs on the blockchain. certain privileges will then be made accessible to those that successfully buy Or sell any of the NFT’s inspired from the event which will include: close to stage VIP seats, backroom VIP access etc.

This approach aims to cultivate sustained usage of our dApps and foster wealth circulation within the community.

As the contest concludes, winners will be rewarded with bounties and rewards, which can only be accessed through smart contracts on the celo blockchain. This ensures transparency, security, and immutability of the rewards distribution process, further enhancing the trust and credibility of our platform.

# STRATEGY & BUDGET BREAKDOWN:

PROCESS:
To ensure efficient and focused execution, online competitions will be conducted in different cities, allowing participants to showcase their talents. From these competitions, a select group of finalists will be chosen, and they will be invited to the host nations for the finals, where the ultimate winners will be determined and rewarded. Recognising the challenges associated with hosting events in numerous countries, including time constraints, high costs, and inherent risks, we have strategically chosen to concentrate our efforts in two countries that are central to all African regions. This approach involves bringing the contestants to these host nations, where the final competition will take place.

Following the conclusion of the contest, a crucial phase will commence. The visiting participants will undergo a comprehensive workshop training, designed to introduce them to the intricacies of the Celo ecosystem. This training will equip them with the necessary knowledge and skills to establish Celo communities in their respective nations. By empowering these individuals with a deep understanding of the Celo platform, we aim to foster the growth and development of Celo communities across Africa.

# Season 1: July - November 2023
CXA project NIGERIA will host 2 events of which first event is the contest final and second event will be a 3 days workshop training.
CXA project SOUTH AFRICA will also host 2 events of which first event is the contest and second event will be a 3 days workshop training
Budget will be expatiated below.

Promotion & marketing: $8,500
* Social media marketing : $3000
1.  Twitter ads: $1,500
2. Instagram ads: $1,500

* Influencer collaborations: $2000

  2 influencers with huge active fan base will be engaged with $1000 each for their promotion services.

  @ pocolee : $2000 (east & west Africa project)

   @ dancegod Lloyd : $2000 (north, south & Central Africa project)
  
* Promotional/campaign items: $1,500
1. Banners: $25each X 16units: $400
2. Fliers: 5cent each X 7000 units: $350
3. Badges: 10 cent X 2000 units: $200
4. 100 Branded T-shirts: $5 X100 units: $500
5. E-cards designing : $50
   
* Website development and maintenance: $2000
  
Workshop : $5000
* Facilitators fees: 2 speakers X $250 each: $500
  
* Workshop training materials: $500 
1. White boards & markers of different color 
2. Printed copies of training materials, handouts, and worksheets 
3. Stationery supplies 

* Audiovisual equipments: $1000
1. camera : $150
2. Projector: $100
3. Mixers, Speakers and amplifiers: $250

* Catering: $500

catering to over 55 people during the workshop training with Water, tea or coffee and snacks @ $5 per meal for 3days.
{55 attendees X $3} X 3days = $495. Ice for drinks @ $5 + $495: $500

* Venue rental: $1500

Renting a venue that’s well equipped with computers and (wifi) Internet services @ $500 per day X 3days: $1500

* Staff and support: $1000
 Each supporting staff earn $30 daily {5 staffs X $30}= $150 X 3days= $450

* Logistics / transportation @ $300

* Unlimited Internet @ $250 for 3days (discounted offer)

Contestant logistics: $8000
* Accommodation for contestant: $3000
 A hostel with 50 double-bed suites @ $20 per night will be booked for 3nights {50 rooms X $20} = $1000 X3 nights= $3000
* Transportation for contestants: $5000
Projected average expenditure for bus and train tickets intended for international contestants arriving from neighboring countries. Allocated budget for 100+ International delegates

Venue rental & production: $10,000
* Venue: $5000
Estimated cost for booking the grand auditorium to host the competition finale. Set up would take 2 days and event will hold on 3rd day so venue will be booked for 3 days. this budget includes camera crew production.
{Venue : $2500 + audiovisual production: $2,500}

* Stage & lighting set up: $3000

* Sound system & equipment: $2000

Prizes and awards : $6000  
-Prize Distribution:
* Winner: $2000
* 1st Runner-up: $1500
* 2nd Runner-up: $1000
* Three winners in the 3rd Runner-up position will each receive $500, resulting in a total of $1500.

Staffing: $5,500 
My team:  
project has a 5 months duration and work will be undergoing for both events simultaneously. for six hours daily(half day), Each of us will earn $200 per month for each project namely:
* West & East Africa project with finale holding in Nigeria
* North, South & Central Africa project with finale holding in South Africa.
Each team member has agreed to put In full day contribution to this project so In summary, each team member will earn $400 monthly for 12 hours of service rendered daily.

Role	Name	Wages	Multi-sig.
Project lead	Shola spark	$200	0x65370F66D60D94E5237C4de5515bd47e88eD3207

Event lead	Sixtus Aguero	$200	0x3E07F274Cf50464AB4b968109134D0Dc2C04D7B7 

Marketing and social	Elizabeth precious ekpuk	$200	0x067d90c2C62B285DdAA4432Cb4bE5b541927FBa9

* Technical crew: $1500
This is an allocated budget for technical crew for the events during the preparation and execution of the finale.

* Security personel: $500
This is allocated budget for security personnel that will be on guard during the event through the 3 days of finale and 3 days workshop training.
5 security personnel X $100 = $500

* Event Volunteer: $500
This budget is designated to provide assistance to volunteers involved in organizing the events. Their responsibilities include managing logistics for delegates, arranging accommodation, coordinating venue logistics, facilitating form completion, serving refreshments, and assisting with contestant onboarding.
 10 volunteers X $50= $500
  
Miscellaneous: $2000
* Insurance & permits: $1000
* Miscellaneous contingency: $1000

GRAND TOTAL OF $45,000. THIS BUDGET COVERS THE FOLLOWING IN EACH REGION:
* A 3 DAY PLANNING AND HOSTING OF COMPETITION FINALE.
* A 3 DAY THOROUGH WORKSHOP TRAINING ON CREATIVE ARTIST INTEGRATION INTO CELO ECOSYSTEM.

West & East Africa project with finale & workshop holding in Nigeria @ $45,000
North, South & Central Africa project with finale & workshop holding in South Africa @ $45,000
Total : $90,000

Please note:
1. In acknowledgement of the difficulties involved in organizing events across multiple countries, such as time constraints, high expenses, and inherent risks, we have made a strategic decision to focus our efforts on two countries that serve as central hubs for all African regions. This approach involves bringing the contestants to these host nations, where the final competition will take place, instead of hosting separate events in each African nation, which may be more cost-effective individually but would incur substantial expenses overall. As a result, we have consolidated the 55 events into two carefully structured events to ensure inclusivity for all Africans.
2. The Celo x Art initiative is a strategic pilot program deployed to increase traction and develop a comprehensive framework for establishing and managing the CXA DAO. This initiative aims to cultivate broader adoption and promote the seamless operation of CXA (Celo X Art) as a decentralized entity, ensuring its effective governance and sustainable growth within the Celo ecosystem.
3. CXA is a dedicated platform exclusively focused on the Celo ecosystem. All activities, achievements, and interactions take place within the Celo forum, its marketplaces, and other Celo related platforms. CXA operates exclusively and this environment should ensure a cohesive and focused community within the Celo ecosystem, fostering collaboration and growth among its members.
4. CXA is targeting the African region primarily. with a case study as Nigeria, a country with over 200 million people and 43 million households and an average of 1 creative artist per house hold, this leaves the population of artist in Nigeria at over 43 million people. which is about one quarter the population of the whole country. Using this as a rough estimate, With over 1.4 billion people in Africa as a region (all 55 countries included), we should be arriving at 350 million creatives minimum with each individual/household being our target onboardee. Our focus herein lies on effectively covering the African region first, allowing for successful adoption. Should need for expansion to other regions arise, our efficient metrics and structure will facilitate seamless extension.
5. Approximately 460 million Africans, constituting one-third of the continent’s population, live in extreme poverty. Given Africa’s population of around 1.4 billion, Celo’s mission of prosperity for all is particularly crucial, necessitating a focused approach to effectively expand its impact in the African region.

|DESCRIPTION|	COST|
| --- | --- |
|Promotion & marketing|		
|Social media marketing|$3,000|
|Banners, fliers ,badges, branded t-shirts|	$1,500	
|Website development and maintenance|	$2,000	
|Influencer collaborations	|$2,000|
|TOTAL|	$8,500|
|Workshop|		
|Trainer/speaker fees|	$500|	
|Workshop materials|	$500|	
|Audiovisual equipments|	$1000|	
|Catering|	$500|	
|Staff and support|	$1000|	
|Venue rental|	$1500|	
|TOTAL|		$5,000|
|Contestant logistics||		
|Accommodation for contestant|	$3,000|	
|Transportation for contestants|	$5,000|	
|TOTAL		|$8,000|
|Venue rental & production||		
|Venue|	$2,500|	
|audiovisual(camera production)|	$2,500|	
|Stage & lighting set up|	$3,000|	
|Sound system & equipment|	$2,000|	
|TOTAL|		$10,000|
|Prizes and awards|	$6,000|	
|Staffing	||	
|My team & I (x3)	($200 per month/ 3 team members) x 5months|	$3000|
|Technical crew|	$1,500|	
|Security personel|	$500|	
|Event volunteers|	$500|	
|TOTAL|		$5,500|
|Miscellaneous||		
|Insurance & permits|	$1,000|	
|Miscellaneous contingency|	$1,000|	
|TOTAL|		$2,000|
|GRAND TOTAL|		$45,000|

Event budget in nigeria (october)= $45,000|
Event budget in south africa (November)= $45,000
Total cost of both events = $90,000

Amount requested: $90,000 ~ 215,808 CELO

# Metrics:

Building creatives community with an estimated 15,000+ members across all social platforms (twitter, telegram)
Training and empowering and onboarding of artists from 20+ African countries to become community creative builders on celo
2 Videos from workshop orientation program as training materials for future integration of artists into celo ecosystem.
We pledge to give monthly update on our progress.

# Side note:
We’ve noticed The primary focus of most DAO’s has traditionally been on supporting students within universities and colleges. However, it is essential to recognise the existence of a significantly larger community comprising young and talented individuals who have dedicated years to honing their creative art skills. Many of these individuals for various reasons have consciously chosen to forego the conventional educational system, finding inspiration from accomplished figures in the global creative arts realm. Remarkably, approximately 50% of these highly accomplished individuals have never pursued a university education, while an additional 60% of those who did enrol in a university eventually discontinued their studies before completion.

It is crucial to underscore that our primary focus centers on this distinct group of individuals who have chosen alternative paths, although it is not exclusive to them. By prioritising our efforts towards supporting and empowering individuals outside the confines of traditional academia, we aim to provide them with opportunities to harness their artistic talents and unlock their full potential.

TWITTER: @CELOXART

TELEGRAM: @celoxart

Team & Mult-Sig:
Multisig wallet: mainnet:0x4fF1d1dc1b8246315961014B9F4f69B0f219004b

Role	Name	Multisig
Marketing & Social	@lizzy	0x067d90c2C62B285DdAA4432Cb4bE5b541927FBa9 

Event Lead	@sixtus	0x3E07F274Cf50464AB4b968109134D0Dc2C04D7B7 

project lead	@sholasparks	0x65370F66D60D94E5237C4de5515bd47e88eD3207


TEAM MEMBERS:
@Sixtus : Event lead 
Sixtus Aguero, a seasoned creative artist and experienced program director, entered the web3 space two years ago and has since become a proficient training developer. With over a decade of expertise in event planning and management, Sixtus has successfully organized various events and contests, including noteworthy ones such as:
* ROCKFEST 1.0
* ROCKFEST 2.0
* Derizo Concert Ibadan
* Derizo Concert Lagos
* Love world festival of music and arts
* Lima awards
* And many other notable events.
With a proven track record in delivering exceptional events, Sixtus Aguero brings a wealth of experience and expertise to the role of event planner.
6ixtus (@officialsixtusaguero) • Instagram photos and videos


@lizzy : Marketing & social
Elizabeth Precious Ekpuk is a multi-talented professional with expertise in various fields. She serves as a social media manager, proficient in managing online platforms to enhance brand presence and engagement. Additionally, Elizabeth excels as a motion and still graphic designer, creating visually appealing content to captivate audiences. With a passion for web3 technology, she stays updated with the latest developments in the field.
Furthermore, Elizabeth is a promising SOC Analyst, specializing in cybersecurity and internet security. She is actively pursuing certification as a (ISC)² Candidate, demonstrating her commitment to continuous professional growth and excellence in the field. With a diverse skill set and a focus on cybersecurity, Elizabeth Precious Ekpuk is well-equipped to handle complex challenges and contribute to ensuring a secure digital environment. 

https://www.linkedin.com/in/precious-ekpuk-24b2781a0 PRECIOUS’ PORTFOLIO – Precious Ekpuk 'The Brand' PaaS 

(@preciousekpuk) • Instagram photos and videos


Executive summary :
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Budget: We request 215,808 CELO equivalent to $90,000 (At the time of correcting this proposal) for the next five months (July - November 2023). I, Shola, a creative director/artist, have spearheaded an initiative called CELO X ART (CXA) with my team. Our primary objective is to bridge the gap between creatives and the web3 space. This two-phase project aims to empower creative artists and establish a thriving community for them within the CELO ecosystem, enabling them to express their art without limitations.
Phase 1 of the project involves hosting two contests in Nigeria and South Africa, where participants will compete for prizes. In addition to the contest, contestants will undergo a comprehensive workshop training that will familiarize them with the CELO ecosystem and its DApps. They will be educated on how to integrate their art into the ecosystem and engage with CELO’s marketplaces. This phase serves as the initial step in integrating creatives into the CELO ecosystem.
Phase 2 focuses on the establishment of the CXA DAO. The CXA DAO aims to empower creatives within the CELO ecosystem, fostering growth and prosperity among artists worldwide. The introduction of the CXA DAO will take place in the second season of the project, enabling creatives to actively participate in decision-making processes and contribute to the development of the community.
As part of our future plans, we envision expanding the CXA initiative beyond Africa and into other continents. By embracing creatives from diverse backgrounds, we aim to create a global network of artists within the CELO ecosystem, facilitating collaboration and mutual growth.
Through CELO X ART (CXA), we are dedicated to unlocking the full potential of creatives in the web3 space, providing them with a platform to showcase their talents and thrive in a supportive community.
CELOXART@YAHOO.COM 
thanks.
