---
cgp: 0130
title: Red Beard Ventures x CELO Accelerator
date-created: 2024-04-04
author: "Red Beard Ventures & CELO Team"
status: EXECUTED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/draft-celo-accelerator-program-x-red-beard-ventures
governance-proposal-id: 172
date-executed: 2024-04-13
---

## Overview

CGP - Celo Governance Proposal

This proposal outlines a collaborative accelerator program between Red Beard Ventures (RBV) and CELO, aimed at supporting and expanding the CELO ecosystem, particularly in the payments and decentralized finance sectors.

### Status

- DRAFT = Feedback collection

The proposal seeks to establish a partnership focusing on investing in CELO-native companies, with RBV requesting funding of $100,000 in cUSD and $50,000 in CELO (CELO Price to be executed at 1.08 at the time of this proposal) to cover operational costs. Additionally, RBV commits to investing $300,000 USD into the CELO ecosystem.

## Proposed Changes

1. **Funding Request:**

   - Destination: Operational costs for the accelerator program.
   - Data: $100,000 in cUSD and $50,000 in CELO from CELO
   - Value: The funding and investment are aimed at supporting a minimum of 3 companies building on CELO, fostering ecosystem growth with $300,000 invested from Red Beard Ventures

2. **Denarii Labs Accelerator Program:**

   - Destination: A 12-week accelerator program managed by Denarii Labs in partnership with CELO.
   - Data: The program will focus on technical architecture, product development, business development, token design strategies, legal and regulatory insights, whitepaper development, and fundraising.
   - Value: Enhancing the CELO ecosystem's development and supporting businesses with a focus on tokenomics and Venture Capital fundraising.

3. **RBV Ecosystem Engagement:**

   - Destination: Integration of CELO builders into the RBV ecosystem.
   - Data: Leveraging RBV's network of 200+ portfolio companies and 4500 LPs to support CELO ecosystem growth.
   - Value: Promoting CELO and raising awareness around builders in the ecosystem.

4. **CELO Accelerator Overview:**

   - Destination: Marketing and sourcing companies for the accelerator program.
   - Data: A 12-week period focused on marketing and sourcing, followed by a 12-week intensive accelerator program.
   - Value: Investment and exposure to RBV's ecosystem, benefiting the CELO ecosystem.

5. **Program Performance Metrics:**

   - Destination: Bi-annual community updates.
   - Data: Application engagement, participant satisfaction (NPS), alumni funding, blockchain engagement, and community growth.
   - Value: Transparent reporting to gauge the program's impact on the CELO ecosystem.

6. **Overall Allocation:**

   - Destination: Budget authorization for the CELO Accelerator.
   - Data: $100,000 cUSD and $50,000 CELO for operational costs, with RBV investing $100,000 into a minimum of 3 companies building on CELO.
   - Value: Covering the costs of sourcing, marketing, and operating the accelerator program.

7. **Partnership Contributions:**
   - Destination: Denarii Labs and CELO contributions.
   - Data: Denarii Labs provides 100,000 USD investment into a minimum of 3 CELO companies, promotion, sourcing, and program management. CELO provides curriculum support, ecosystem expert introductions, and potential token grants.
   - Value: Leveraging both partners' strengths to support and grow the CELO ecosystem.

## Verification

Voters can verify the effectiveness and impact of this CGP by reviewing the performance metrics and outcomes of the accelerator program, including the number of applications received, participant satisfaction (NPS), alumni funding post-graduation, blockchain engagement, and community growth metrics.

## Useful Links

- [CELO Forum Discussion](https://forum.celo.org)
- [Red Beard Ventures](https://redbeardventures.com)
- [Denarii Labs](https://denariilabs.com)
