---
cgp: 113
title: Invest part of Reserve Collateral into low-risk reward generating protocols
date-created: 2024-01-09
author: "Roman Croessmann (@rcroessmann), Markus Franke (@MarkusBerlin), Oleksiy Novykov"
status: EXECUTED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/yield-rewards-on-reserve-collateral
governance-proposal-id: 150
date-executed: 2024-01-17
---

## Overview

The [Mento Reserve](https://reserve.mento.org/) consists of a diversified portfolio of different
on-chain assets supporting the ability of the [Mento Protocol](https://www.mento.org/) to expand
and contract the supply of Mento stable assets, in line with user demand. As of Jan 8, the reserve
collateralization ratio is ~4.3. For every 1$ worth of Mento stable assets, there is ~$4.3 worth
of collateral in the Reserve.

Yield and rewards on on-chain assets are a developing field with more solutions becoming available
every week and veteran solutions becoming more battle-tested. It therefore seems worth revisiting
the topic of yield on Reserve Collateral. Generating yield and rewards on a part of the Reserve
assets could help grow the Reserve over-collateralization and be used to incentivize beneficial
behavior on the Mento Protocol down the line. It would however come with some additional risks
(in addition to the principal risk of the asset), mainly platform/counterparty risk and liquidity
risk due to unlocking periods.

This proposal was shared for feedback on the Celo Forum by @Roman in November 2023 and discussed
in the Mento Community Call on November 20, 2023. There seems to be a consensus among community
members that it makes sense to explore different solutions offering low-risk on-chain yield and
rewards. Additionally, to direct benefits for Mento Reserve and stablecoin users, it is a great
opportunity for the whole Celo ecosystem that the Reserve attracts new projects like Centrifuge,
Flux, and others to deploy on Celo and offer their products to the whole ecosystem.

This proposal aims to execute the first step and invest some collateral assets into low-risk,
decentralized, on-chain solutions. Specifically, the proposal suggests to:

- lock 100% of the Reserve DAI in sDAI (effectively switching out DAI for sDAI in the reserve target allocation and in future rebalancing into sDAI),
- lock the reserve ETH that is currently not committed to liquidity pools via CGP121 in LIDO and
- allocate 25% of the EUROC holdings into Angle Protocol’s stEUR.

All the earned rewards shall flow back into the Reserve as additional stablecoin collateral.
The Mento Labs team will work with the Celo and Mento communities to explore other solutions
to earn additional rewards and alternative ways to utilize the earned funds. These will be
subject to separate governance proposals in the future.

## Proposed Changes

No on-chain changes. This proposal is simply aiming to reallocate Reserve assets.

## Verification

No on-chain changes.

## Risks

Many DeFi protocols have been hacked in the past, therefore this proposal for now focuses on
proven solutions and is only allocating a conservative share of the Reserve to these solutions.
Further research is necessary before the Reserve expands the holding in staked assets.
Staked assets need to unlock before they can be liquidated and used as collateral.
Therefore liquidity of the Reserve assets needs to be closely monitored.

## Useful Links

- [Accompanying Forum Discussion](https://forum.celo.org/t/yield-rewards-on-reserve-collateral/6881)
- [Mento Reserve Website](https://reserve.mento.org/)
* Executed by: [0xj4an-work](https://0xj4an.xyz)
