---
cgp: 45
title: cREAL Activation
date-created: 13-10-2021
author: '@luisgj (Bitso), @martinvol (cLabs)'
status: EXECUTED
governance-proposal-id: 50
date-executed: '[if executed] <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>'
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/cbrl-stable-asset/1281
---
## Overview

CGP 45 - cREAL Activation

This proposal is the third and final governance proposal needed launch cREAL. It was preceeded by [CGP-42](https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/cgp-0042.md) and [CGP-46](https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/cgp-0046.md).


### Status

This proposal should not be executed until at least one oracle report for cREAL has been submitted on-chain. At this point, cREAL should already be deployed and initialized, but frozen and un-usable.


Please note `cREAL` was formelly called `cBRL`.

## Proposed Changes

This proposals fully enables cREAL, unfreezing te contracts for `StableTokenBRL` and `ExchangeBRL`, adding the it to be stabilized by the reserve, allowing it to pull CELO from the Reserve and whitelisting cREAL as gas currency. Finally, it sets the limits for Granda Mento.

1. Unfreezing StableTokenBRL
  - Destination: Freezer.unfreeze
  - Data: StableTokenBRL(`0xe8537a3d056DA446677B9E9d6c5dB704EaAb4787`)
  - Value: 0
2. Unfreezing ExchangeBRL
  - Destination: Freezer.unfreeze
  - Data: ExchangeBRL(`0x8f2cf9855C919AFAC8Bd2E7acEc0205ed568a4EA`)
  - Value: 0
3. Enable ExchangeBRL to pull money out of the reserve
  - Destination: Reserve.addExchangeSpender
  - Data: ExchangeBRL(`0x8f2cf9855C919AFAC8Bd2E7acEc0205ed568a4EA`)
  - Value: 0
4. Adds StableTokenBRL as a token to be stabilized by the reserve
  - Destination: Reserve.addToken
  - Data: StableTokenBRL(`0xe8537a3d056DA446677B9E9d6c5dB704EaAb4787`)
  - Value: 0
5. Enables cREAL as a gas currency
  - Destination: FeeCurrencyWhitelist.addToken
  - Data: StableToken(`0xe8537a3d056DA446677B9E9d6c5dB704EaAb4787`)
  - Value: 0
6. Enable Granda Mento for cREAL
  - Destination: GrandaMento.setStableTokenExchangeLimits
  - Data: ['StableTokenBRL', minExchangeAmount=2500000000000000000000000 (2.5Me18), maxExchangeAmount=250000000000000000000000000 (250Me18)]
  - Value: 0

## Verification

Can be verified with the cli by running: `celocli governance:view --proposalID 50`

## Risks

* cREAL price risk: due to the low initial reserveFraction parameter, the initial expansion and contraction potential of cREAL supply is low which could lead to slow adjustments of cREAL supply after cREAL demand shocks. The impact of this is that it could take longer for cREAL to regain the peg after an extensive cREAL demand shock compared to a setup with a large reserveFraction parameter (similar to [CGP #7](https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/cgp-0007.md).
* cREAL reserve swap risk: The ability to exchange cREAL against Reserve assets may lead to depletion of the Reserve if oracles are not reflecting market prices accurately. Appropriate trade bucket sizes according to available market liquidity limit the extent of this risk.

## Useful Links

* [Stability White Paper](https://celo.org/papers/Celo_Stability_Analysis.pdf)
