---
cgp: '105'
title: 'Funding for cLabs blockchain public goods work'
date-created: '2023-10-19'
author: 'Tim Moreton (@timmoreton)'
status: 'DRAFT'
discussions-to: 'https://forum.celo.org/t/funding-for-clabs-blockchain-public-goods-work/6569'
governance-proposal-id: '141'
date-executed: 'TODO'
---

## Overview

This CGP provides funding to cLabs for its ongoing blockchain public goods work.     

Detailed background to this proposal, including information about cLabs, is given in the [original forum post](https://forum.celo.org/t/funding-for-clabs-blockchain-public-goods-work/6569).  The proposal has also been discussed and received support at a Celo Governance meeting. 

[cLabs](https://clabs.co) is a non-stock, non-profit organization dedicated to furthering the Celo ecosystem. 

The proposal would put some of the funds returned from the Mento Reserve to productive use accelerating development of the Celo blockchain. The proposal funds the core of cLabs' work maintaining, testing and hardening the Celo L1 blockchain and the roadmap to Celo becoming an L2. 

The grant would provide coverage for:

* Funding the existing blockchain team

* Full funding for 2-2.5 additional FTE engineers (depending on level, hiring date, etc) for the blockchain and L2 effort, speeding development once they are ramped up.

* Scale testing: We stand up and tear down 100+ node testnets for performance and failure testing, invaluable in scalability work as well as helping make the network more resilient: this costs cLabs tens of thousands of dollars, and this proposal would allow the team to do more of that work.

* Auditing with highly regarded third-party audit firms for key portions of new code

These funds will be ring-fenced and not used to support other functions, projects, or individuals outside the blockchain team. To provide deeper transparency and accountability for the use of funds, we will enable the Celo Foundation’s finance and grants team access to our records in order to make a public statement to the community to confirm that this grant was used for the purposes described here.

The proposal funds a ReleaseCelo smart contract. This enables the funds to vest monthly, over 12 months, and with a 6 month cliff, before which point all of the funds are locked. The Governance contract would be the releaseOwner of the contract. This means that if cLabs doesn’t meet its commitments, or doesn’t use all of the funds for the described purpose, a subsequent governance proposal could revoke the contract and any unvested CELO would return to the Community Fund.

cLabs would aim to incur these expenses over a target period of 12 months. The team is presently based in the European Union and in Argentina. The costs approximately divide as 1/3 cUSD, 1/3 CELO, and 1/3 fiat, EUR or USD. 

## Proposed Changes

The proposal funds a ReleaseGold contract already deployed to the network. It does not modify or upgrade any contracts or parameters.

## Verification

Before approving/voting, fetch the on-chain proposal and verify that the destination address matchs the address of the ReleaseCelo contract, `0x7E18BD70E01180364ED416b7d397621Fe1b83026` and that the amount is 6,608k CELO, equivalent to `6608000000000000000000000` or `6.608e24`.

```celocli governance:show --proposalID 141```

Then verify that the same contract is a ReleaseCelo contract with parameters that match the proposal:

```celocli releasegold:show --contract  0x7E18BD70E01180364ED416b7d397621Fe1b83026```

In particular check these parameters:

```
releaseOwner: 0xD533Ca259b330c7A88f74E000a3FaEa2d63B7972  # check this is GovernanceProxy address by copy-pasting into Explorer: allows Governance to revoke the grant
beneficiary: 0x8c7510C66f1BbF8f700a2665c898b3FB77550E38   # cLabs self-custodied account
releaseSchedule:
  releaseStartTime: Sat, Oct 28, 2023, 1:00 AM PDT    # vesting start time
  releaseCliff: Sat, Apr 27, 2024, 1:00 PM PDT   # 6 month cliff
  numReleasePeriods: 12    # 12 month total vest 
  releasePeriod: 1 month, 10 hours   # monthly vesting 
  amountReleasedPerPeriod: 550666583333333366666667 (~5.507e+23)  # 1/12 of total vested every month
```

## Risks

This proposal does not deploy or upgrade contracts or change network parameters so represent minimal risk to the network. 

This proposal does transfer funds from the Community Fund.  The major risk is an incorrect destination address that would leave the funds in the wrong account, or an incorrect `releaseOwner` on the ReleaseGold account. So long as those are correct, if any other parameter is incorrect, the contract can be revoked, the funds returned, and the grant reissued. 

## Useful Links

* [Forum Discussion, September 2023](https://forum.celo.org/t/funding-for-clabs-blockchain-public-goods-work/6569)
