---
cgp: 174
title: Introducing Celo Core Contracts Hotfix Security Council
date-created: 2025-03-12
author: cLabs Primitives Team
status: 'DRAFT'
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/proposing-celo-l2s-security-council
governance-proposal-id:
date-executed:
---

## Overview

Following the L2 migration of the Celo network, the hotfix mechanism (used to execute urgent security fixes of the Celo Contracts.) will migrate from being approved by a set of elected validators, to being approved by a security council multisig.

This proposal is intended to execute the transaction adding the address of the Security Council multisig to the governance contract, so that it is available as soon as the migration is completed.

## Proposed Changes

1. Add the Security Council multisig address to the Celo Governance contract

- Destination: Governance
- Data: setSecurityCouncil(
    address _council = 0x...TBD... (securityCouncilMultiSig)
  )
- Value: 0

**NB: The actual address of the multisig contract will be finalized once the multisig contract has been deployed. This is expected to happen on 2025-03-13**

## Verification

An explanation of how voters can verify that this CGP does what it intends to do. Can be left as “TODO” until the proposal is made. Include things like CLI commands to run and pointers to code.

## Risks

Highlight any risks and concerns that may affect consensus, proof-of-stake, governance, protocol economics, the stability protocol, security, and privacy.

## Useful Links

* Optional section
* Links to related CIPs or other documents (eg. if this is a proposal to point to a new instance of a smart contract that was updated)
