---
cgp: 76
title: LatAm-W3-DAO-Proposal
date-created: 2023-03-25
author: '@juancamp1987 in behalf of DAO Members'
status: PROPOSED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/latam-w3-dao-proposal/4494
governance-proposal-id: 95
date-executed:
---

# Abstract
To spread awareness about the Celo protocol and increase its adoption, grow the Celo community with initiatives in the most used languages in LatAm (Portuguese and Spanish! 3), and help nurture the next cohort of great initiatives on Web3.
Celo has one of the most global communities in crypto. 
In order to further expand decentralization and the localization of the protocol in different regions and cultures, we would love to empower local communities to lead local growth.
We believe that folks on the ground are the most equipped to do this and that a grassroots approach will benefit the growth of Celo and its community.


# Proposal

## Goal
Bring to life next gen of dApps and partnerships to Celo by exploring #REFI use cases and opportunities, and contribute with the community in projects towards raising awareness about the Celo protocol and increase its adoption, grow the Celo community with initiatives in the most used languages in LatAm (Portuguese and Spanish!).

Celo has one of the most global communities in crypto. In order to further expand decentralization and the localization of the protocol in different regions and cultures, we must empower local communities to lead local growth. Decision power and initiatives must be shifted to folks on the ground who are the most equipped to collab and achieve a grassroots approach that will benefit the growth of Celo and its community.

## Amount Requested
$605k worth of CELO = 903K Celo at 90 days average.

## Areas of Focus

### Accelerating Growth: Web3 Venture Builder (Solution Design + Project Development and Shipping + Capital)**
Create a Web3 Venture Studio to launch the next gen of Web3 initiatives by: (i) helping expressive Web2 companies launch on Celo and (ii) nurturing native web3 initiatives.

Founders on Celo community may play a joint role in this initiative: either by providing services, collaborating and/or other formats that we feel may further advance the Celo mission.

Countries and initiatives that are more mature and show product market fit will be prioritized. LatinAmerica is a vast region and while we have representatives of different countries and aim to further increase reach, initial actions will focus on more mature markets and initiatives.

#### Budget Ask: $280,000
- Technical Support (encompasses tech development and business support)
- Technical Support: 300 hours / Average professional hour at $80
- Extras (e.g. back office/operations) $40,000

#### Success Metrics:
- 8 Web3 Dev Studio Participants across the region
- 100% Project Conversion Rate to Celo
- Transaction volume >$500M after 1 year

### Collabs for Awareness, Education and Hackathons
Help onboard new community members and developers, and guide them through the ecosystem, by collaborating with ecosystem founders and partners, doing Hackathons, meetups and other learning initiatives.

#### Budget Ask: $120,000
We are looking to accomplish at least 12 initiatives around the next year *(6 in Portuguese and 6 in Spanish)*. Ecosystem partners *(i.e. Founders on Celo)* must submit their proposals for such and budget will be allocated after open calls for discussion. We may co-organize the initiatives together and report to the community.

### Content Creation: Building Market Awareness and Brand Positioning with Ambassadors
Build our community locally and on the ground. This includes translation of ecosystem news into local languages. Hosting Twitter spaces and local AMAs. Educating the community on projects in the ecosystem and programs and hosting meetups (in connection with Focus Areas number #1 and 2 above).

#### Budget Ask: $50,000
- Description	Cost
  - Content Creation/Moderation/Influencers	$45.000
  - Promos/Swags/Paid Ads	$5.000

- Success Metrics
  - 2 Twitter Spaces per Week
  - 2 Instagram Lives per week
  - 4 Social media posts (Instagram, TikTok, Twitter) per Week
  - Ongoing management of local communication channels

### Extras: Tooling for the DAO work

#### Budget Ask: $50,000
1. Tooling
   - Request Network
   - KYC DAO (?)
   - WorkDAO 2 1 / Coordinape 1 or Origami
   - Docusign
2. Legal review of structure, compliance and due diligence
   - In case another structure needs to be implemented due to legal review we will discuss with the community.


### Compensation
#### Budget Ask: $50,000
   - Equivalent $100 worth of CELO per Hour, expectation is 5-10 hours per month
   - Between 7-10% of overall budget will go towards compensation

## Transparency & Progress
We commit to posting monthly updates on our progress. We plan to measure success by developing a set of reports that we will share quarterly tracking the progress of:

- N. Community Development Over Time
- N. Active Developers over time
- N. Projects submitted in the end of the hackathon
Reports will be shared in the forum.

- Forum posts with feedback request prior to initiatives
- Forum posts with updates
- Social media posts
- Quarter reports
- Open work on Discord channel
Get to know our talent, and what we bring to the Celo Ecosystem!

### Taxes (10%)
#### Budget Ask: $55,000

## Useful Links
- Twitter/Instagram (@Celoorg.br @celo_esp)
- Telegram (Celo Espanol / Celo Portugues)


# Governance & Multisignature
| Role                            | Name                |
| ---                             | :---:               |
| Business Development            | Mila Rioja          |
| Developer Relations             | Martina Mendoza     |
| Developer Relations             | Juan Giraldo        |
| Events, Hackatons and Socials   | Cristobal Pereira   |
| Events, Hackatons and Socials   | Santiago Mora       |
| ReFI and Governance Specialist  | Gabriel Ribenboin   |
| StableCoin Specialist           | Martin Volpe        |

## Multisign address:      
0x38DBAB5C651F352C8f5F765fDA292E9B92d850Ff

# Verification
Before approving/voting: Fetch the on-chain proposal and verify that the multisig address and approval amount match the approval call submitted to chain:

## Command
celocli governance:show --proposalID 95 --node https://forno.celo.org

## You should see:
    Running Checks:
       ✔  95 is an existing proposal 
    proposal: 
      0: 
        contract: GoldToken
        address: 0x471EcE3750Da237f93B8E339c536989b8978a438
        function: approve
        args: 
          0: 0x38DBAB5C651F352C8f5F765fDA292E9B92d850Ff
          1: 903000000000000000000000
        params: 
          __length__: 2
          spender: 0x38DBAB5C651F352C8f5F765fDA292E9B92d850Ff
          value: 903000000000000000000000 (~9.030e+23)
        value: 0
    metadata: 
      proposer: 0x8f51DC0791CdDDDCE08052FfF939eb7cf0c17856
      deposit: 100000000000000000000 (~1.000e+20)
      timestamp: TBD
      transactionCount: 1
      descriptionURL: https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/cgp-0076.md

# Expected output:
[ { "contract": "GoldToken", "function": "approve", "args": ["0x38DBAB5C651F352C8f5F765fDA292E9B92d850Ff", "903000000000000000000000"], "value": "0" } ]