---
cgp: 59
title: Reduce Exchange Spreads for cREAL
date-created: 2022-07-08
author: '@aleksey-nov, @sissnad'
status: EXECUTED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/discussion-cgp-59-creal-fee-reduction/3929
governance-proposal-id: 67
date-executed: '[if executed] <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>'
---
## Overview

This governance proposal suggests a reduction of the fee charged for cREAL exchanges via Mento, the Celo stability protocol.

In governance proposal [CGP0042](https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/cgp-0042.md), the Celo Reserve has charged a fee of 0.5%, a value controlled via the `spread` parameter in the Exchange contract, on all cREAL trades with the Celo Reserve. This fee is supposed to compensate the Celo Reserve for taking on price risk as a liquidity provider.

A 0.5% spread effectively leads to an arbitrage free range on the cREAL/BRL rate of at least 0.5% in both directions. Additional fees an arbitrageur encounters, like fees at centralized exchanges, gas costs etc., further increase the range in which cREAL/BRL can fluctuate before arbitrage incentives are present that create pressure towards an exchange rate of 1:1.

We have been in extensive discussions with partners and community members engaging with cREAL. We came to the conclusion that in order to facilitate cREAL markets the `spread` parameter has to be decreased to 0.25% which is equal to the cUSD and cEUR `spread` parameter. Under the assumption that [CGP0058](https://github.com/celo-org/governance/blob/main/CGPs/cgp-0058.md) passes a `spread` of 0.25% will further increase the amount that can be minted or contracted from a factor of 20 (current versus only `reserveFraction` increased to 0.5%) to a factor 26 (current versus `reserveFraction` increased to 0.5% and `spread` lowered to 0.025%).

## Proposed Changes

1. Set cREAL Spread to 0.25%
  - Destination:  ExchangeBRL (Proxy: 0x8f2cf9855C919AFAC8Bd2E7acEc0205ed568a4EA; Implementation: 0x21772Fc92AB1B15dfE4ed7559EaD98eDba883feE), [setSpread](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/blob/master/packages/protocol/contracts/stability/Exchange.sol#L287)
  - Data: newSpread = 2500000000000000000000 (0.0025 * 10^24 = 2.5e21) 
  - Value: 0 (NA)

## Verification

1. Confirm proposal steps: run `celocli governance:view --proposalID X` // TODO add proposal ID once submitted proposal
2. Confirm Exchange addresses: run `celocli network:contracts`

### Post-Execution Verification
1. Confirm Exchange spreads changed to 0.0025: run `celocli network:parameters`

## Risks

- Oracle rate risk: In case of imprecise CELO/BRL, users could exchange cREAL or CELO with the reserve at a price that does not reflect the current market valuation. The decreased `spread` parameter would lead to a larger loss of the reserve in such a case.

## Useful Links
* [Celo Reserve Website](https://celoreserve.org/)
* [Stability WhitePaper](https://celo.org/papers/Celo_Stability_Analysis.pdf)
* [The Celo Reserve FAQs](https://medium.com/celoorg/the-celo-reserve-faqs-f3f7cbb1991f). 
* [The Celo Expansion & Contraction Mechanism](https://medium.com/celoorg/zooming-in-on-the-celo-expansion-contraction-mechanism-446ca7abe4f)
