---
cgp: 124
title: Celo Thailand DAO H1 2024
date-created: 2024-03-08
author: 'Varin Pulpol, Parnaigon Yangpaksi'
status: EXECUTED 
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-thailand-h1-2024-regional-dao-draft
governance-proposal-id: 165
date-executed: 2024-03-17
---

# KohCelo (Celo Thailand DAO) Project for Road to Devcon 2024 | Regional DAO
- **Funding Request:** KohCelo (Celo Thailand DAO) Project for Road to Devcon 2024 | Regional DAO
- **Authors:** Varin Pulpol, Parnaigon Yangpaksi
- **Budget Request:** $37,750 cUSD
- **Proposal Type:** CPG Funding Request | Regional DAO

## Summary:
This proposal outlines a funding allocation of 37,750 cUSD to KohCelo (Celo Thailand DAO) from 1st March 2024 to July 31st, 2024. Our primary objective is to establish a significant Celo presence at Devcon 2024, position Thailand as the CELO hub in Southeast Asia (SEA), enhance Celo’s visibility across Thailand, and strengthen ties within the Crypto Community. Furthermore, the proposal is dedicated to improving the understanding and awareness of Web3’s importance in Thailand, specifically for Celo. Our strategy centers around three main initiatives: 1. Tailoring Content to regional tastes, focusing on Devcon, and 2. Community Expansion through engagement with universities and high engagement with the Ethereum Community, specifically ETHPadThai 3. It boosts public relations and educational outreach. We will also investigate Potential Partnerships and Product development Opportunities.


## Motivation: The Unparalleled Opportunity Road to Devcon for Celo in Thailand

### Introduction
Firstly, we want to extend a heartfelt thank you to Florian Hugenberg [@Frerehugi](https://forum.celo.org/u/frerehugi), the creative mind who proposed and recommended the name KohCelo to us, which we strongly agree with this recommended. Florian, hailing from Germany and a long-standing member of the Celonian community within Celo, shared with us that the term “Koh” is universally recognized and easily remembered by people around the world when thinking of Thailand, citing examples like Koh Phangan, Koh Samui, Koh Phi Phi, Koh Tao, and Koh Chang, among others. So, let’s dive into what this name means and what it represents. KohCelo is a unique and memorable name that perfectly marries the innovative spirit of Celo with the quintessential Thai element of an island. “Koh,” meaning “island” in Thai, conjures images of Thailand’s beautiful, peaceful island landscapes, known for their breathtaking natural beauty and tranquil vibes. This name not only reflects our goal of building an inclusive and sustainable financial ecosystem but also highlights the serene beauty of Thai islands. It symbolizes a perfect harmony of technology and nature, creating a space of connectivity and peace within the Celo network.

According to Chainanalysis, Thailand is among the top 10 countries leading in the Global Crypto Adoption Index 2023. As well as Devcon announcement, Devcon 7 will take place from November 12-15 in the vibrant city of Bangkok, Thailand, with a spirit that will resonate across Southeast Asia over the coming year. The Devcon website mentions that “Southeast Asia is a melting pot of diverse cultures, rich histories, and communities. While Bangkok, Thailand, with its unique blend of tradition and modernity, serves as an ideal location to host Devcon in terms of both venue suitability and global accessibility, our intention is to bring the Devcon experience to the whole of Southeast Asia!” Similarly, the goal of Koh Celo is to establish a significant Celo presence at Devcon 2024, position Thailand as the CELO hub in Southeast Asia (SEA), enhance Celo’s visibility across Thailand & SEA, and strengthen ties within the Crypto Community.

Reference
*   [https://www.chainalysis.com/blog/2023-global-crypto-adoption-index/#top20](https://www.chainalysis.com/blog/2023-global-crypto-adoption-index/#top20) 
*   [Devcon 2024](https://devcon.org/en/)
    

### Crypto Landscape in Thailand
In 2024, Thailand has made significant strides in the crypto and blockchain sectors, marked by progressive regulations from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and strategic industry developments. The SEC’s new guidelines have enhanced the crypto landscape by removing investment limits for retail investors in asset-backed digital tokens and instituting strict custodial wallet management. Furthermore, the introduction of Gulf Binance, a collaborative exchange by Binance and Gulf Energy (Gulf Energy is the No.7 largest company in Thailand with a market cap of $14.17 Billion Dollars, accessed: 3/7/2024), underlines Thailand’s commitment to becoming a key player in the digital asset space. Additionally, Thailand’s Web3 economy is booming, with over 3 million crypto users and a 600% growth in recent years, supported by a crypto-friendly regulatory environment. This growth mirrors the country’s aim to foster innovation and secure its position as a hub for crypto and blockchain in Southeast Asia.

Reference:
*   [Thailand's SEC Updates Crypto-Friendly Landscape: New 2024 Guidelines for Digital Assets - Bitcoinsensus](https://www.bitcoinsensus.com/thailand-sec-2024-crypto-regulations-update/)
*   [Largest companies in Thailand by market cap](https://companiesmarketcap.com/thailand/largest-companies-in-thailand-by-market-cap/)
*   [Binance TH - Digital Assets Exchange and Brokerage in Thailand l Cryptocurrency Trading](https://www.binance.th/en)
    

### Celo’s Opportunity to Thailand
Celo has a unique opportunity at Thailand Devcon 2024, given the country’s high mobile internet usage and digital engagement. According to Datareportal (2023), with 85.3% of the Thai population having internet access, Celo’s mobile-first approach aligns well with Thailand’s tech landscape. According to Statista Research Department, as of January 15, 2024, Tether took the highest market share of Thailand’s most traded cryptocurrencies, accounting for around 40.3 percent of the entire market. The nation’s strong digital economy and active online community are ideal for promoting Celo’s blockchain solutions. Celo can enhance its visibility and adoption within the Thai cryptocurrency and tech communities by focusing on educational initiatives and partnerships that leverage Thailand’s digital infrastructure. This strategic engagement can help Celo capitalize on Thailand’s growing interest in blockchain technology, contributing to the region’s broader digital economy and blockchain ecosystem.

Reference
*   [Digital 2023: Thailand — DataReportal – Global Digital Insights](https://datareportal.com/reports/digital-2023-thailand)
*   [Thailand: market share of cryptocurrencies 2024 | Statista](https://www.statista.com/statistics/1261964/thailand-leading-cryptocurrency-market-share/)
    

### Objectives for Koh Celo Thailand
*   Establish a significant Celo presence for Road to Devcon 2024, position Thailand as the CELO hub in Southeast Asia (SEA)
*   As mentioned in the Devcon blog under the “Road to Devcon” section, “This initiative was born from our commitment to support the rise of new Ethereum events, grassroots communities, and educational endeavors across Southeast Asia.” Therefore, our objective aligns with this vision: to support the emergence of new Celo events, grassroots communities, and educational initiatives throughout Thailand.
*   Educate and Engage: Collaborate with the Ethereum community, specifically ETHPadthai, to promote Celo’s advantages. We will work with these KOLs in Thailand and local communities to promote Celo.
*   Ongoing Outreach: We will extend our discussions & manage the events with universities’ blockchain clubs and ETHPadThai, who is keen on crypto education and adoption.
*   Community Building: Establish a solid and lasting Koh Celo community in Thailand.
    
Reference:
*   [https://ethpadthai.org/ 1](https://ethpadthai.org/)
*   [https://twitter.com/ethpadthai](https://twitter.com/ethpadthai)
*   [https://blog.ethereum.org/2024/01/03/devcon-sea-announcement](https://blog.ethereum.org/2024/01/03/devcon-sea-announcement)
    

## Specifications: What is Celo Thailand DAO Os Going to Execute?

### Focus Area 1: localization Segment
*   Create a Celo-specific AI assistance to answer questions regarding Celo in the native Thai language and other languages on Chatroom.
*   Localize all Celo’s announcements, ecosystem updates, and products for Thai audiences.
*   Leverage localized social media and platforms for effective content distribution.
    
### Focus Area 2 - Community Buildup & University Reachout Segment_
*   Sponsor and reach out to Thai universities with physical and virtual events with local Thai Ethereum communities, Specifically ETHPadThai (Preparing to work leading up to Devcon in Thailand in November 2024)
*   Encourage and advocate students’ project grants targeting grassroots universities’ blockchain-related clubs in Thailand for education and awareness aligned with the Road to Devcon Vision.
*   Establish robust crypto communities in Thailand through meetups, education, and virtual chat communities.
*   Engage the community with regular updates, AMAs, trivia, and quizzes about Celo.
    
### Focus Area 3 - PR and Education Content Segment_
*   Advocate confidence and establishment of Celo advantages among Thai crypto communities 
*   Create and distribute original content and deep drive reviews, contributing to the Celo ecosystem with well-established local brands and communities    

### Focus Area 4 - Partnerships and Products Segment_
*   Identify local partners and engage in cross-promotion and resource-sharing.
*   Forge meaningful relationships with local partners and crypto communities in Thailand.
    
## Budget and Feasibility for 5 months of Koh Celo Thailand Project

### 1 Milestone: Content Localization

|Allocation|Breakdown|ROI and Key Results|
|----------|---------|-------------------|
|$1,000|Document translation services tailored to the Thai language and market nuances|At least 50 contents translated to Thai to build Celo awareness
|$1,700|Creating and promoting culturally resonant content on Thai social media channels|Est. Total Views: 200,000Est. total engagement: 40,000|
|$2,800|Content & Marketing Management|Team costs|
|SUM $5,500|Total for Content Localization|-|

*   Document translation services tailored to the Thai language and market nuances.
    
*   Create & Promote the Celo ecosystem related to social media platforms like Medium, Twitter (X), and Telegram.
    

### 2 Milestone: Community Building, Universities & Crypto Events Reachout

|Allocation|Breakdown|ROI and Key Results|
|----------|---------|-------------------|
|$1,400|Setup and management of community platforms and Social Media on Thai Telegram, Twitter, and/or Line, etc.  $400 of setting up cost\$200 of operation cost per month (total $ for 5 months for Telegram, Twitter)|300+ Thai Local People Telegram members\400+ followers on Twitter|
|$6,000|Expenses for Thai physical and/or online community meet-up events for the whole 5 months of budgeting, net cost included all costs for setting up, renting the place, or inviting the guests.|2 Community Meetup 50+ in-person participants\* 2 online virtual events AMA, CeloSpace in Thai with Ethereum Community
|$3,100|The budget allocation for university outreach is designed to cover 3-5 engagements with local Ethereum Communities, specifically ETH Padthai.|At least 3 engagements with the university outreach along with the Ethereum Community.|
|$9,400|Community & Events Management|Team Costs|
|SUM $19,900|Total Expense for Community Building, Universities & Crypto Events Reachout|-|

*   Reach out to universities and web 2.0 developer communities to encourage people to build on Celo for real-world use cases.
*   Set up and managed community platforms on Thai Telegram or Line.
*   Regular engagement activities tailored for the Thai community, such as Celo Webinar, AMAs, and quizzes, and specific to Celo.
    

### 3 Milestone: PR and Education Content

|Allocation|Breakdown|ROI and Key Results|
|----------|---------|-------------------|
|$1,400|Creation of high-quality Thai PR content highlighting Celo’s activities|30+ Key visual and media production|
|$1,250|Development and design of educational resources catered to the Thai market|Market research and key audience for the Thai market|
|$2,700|PR and Education Content Management|Team Costs|
|SUM $5,350|Total for PR and Education Content|-|

*   Creating high-quality Thai PR content highlighting Celo’s activities.
*   Developed and designed educational resources catered to the Thai market.
    

### 4 Milestone: Partnerships/Products

|Allocation|Breakdown|ROI and Key Results|
|----------|---------|-------------------|
|$2,250|Partnership with existing Thai Communities and KOLs|At least 1 Community Partnership \*At least 1 KOLs Partnership|
|$2,250|Expenses related to the establishment of strategic partnerships with Thai Establishments or cooperation|At least 2 Partnerships and Cooperation with Projects/Groups|
|2,500|Partnerships/Products Management|Team Costs|
|SUM $7,000|Total for Partnerships/Products|-|

*   Market research for identifying potential Thai partners.
    
*   Expenses related to the establishment of strategic partnerships with Thai entities.
    

## Key Metrics and Monitoring Plan

### Strategic Goals and Measurable Outcomes:_
*   Clearly laid out objectives with measurable outcomes.
    
### Financial Transparency:
*   Multisignature account for security.
*   A comprehensive report of finance and spending.
    
### Key Learning and Development:
*   Transparent view into the journey of establishing vibrant web 3.0 Celo communities in Thailand.

### Community Growth Report:
*   The unified report detailing performance, results, and metrics related to community growth in Thailand.

### Structure & Multi-Sig:
*   Multisignature (multisig) account wallet for financial operations: 0x2e598Ab8484c8F5a115b06bBAc2C2Ae8Ab29bf41
    
|Role|Name|Celo Wallet|
|----|----|-----------|
|Lead / Operations|Varin Pulpol|0xb791cd0A3501e60798Cb477FD69406F5422BB25|
|cLead / Strategy|Parnaigon Yangpaksi|0xf2987Db184B298ab9810639536a9dEF1e4d365B5|
|Advisor|Numporn Thungphotrakul|0x7cf81307c3142a165531d2b2bf17f87a367f95c7|

This proposal outlines a strategic plan for Celo’s expansion in Thailand and Road to Devcon 2024. It focuses on content localization, community building, university outreach, public relations, educational content, and local establishment partnerships. The budget is allocated across milestones, ensuring transparency and measurable outcomes.

## Team Background**
- Varin Pulpol – Celo Ambassador Thailand, ImmortalX Moderator, Former FTTDAO Thailand Lead, Master’s in Blockchain at ZIGURAT Institute of Technology & IL3 - Universitat de Barcelona in Spain, Master’s in Digital Economy at Rangsit University in Thailand, Master’s in Digital Education Management at GBSB Global Business School in Switzerland, Ph.D. Candidate in Digital Economy at Rangsit University in Thailand.
- Parnaigon Yangpaksi - Hardcore - [ethpadthai.org](https://t.co/8lHxdeswg4), Core Team - The Mu @themu\_xyz, Ecosystem Ambassador - Aleo, Bachelor of Arts in International Relations - UCLA



## Resources
- Celo Thailand Twitter (X) - [https://twitter.com/celo\_thailand 3](https://twitter.com/celo_thailand)
- Celo Thailand Telegram - [Telegram: Contact @Celo\_Thailand 1](https://t.me/Celo_Thailand)
* Submitted by: [0xj4an-work](https://0xj4an.xyz)
