---
cgp: 31
title: Granda Mento
date-created: 2020-06-15
author: '@tkporter, @albertclabs'
status: EXECUTED
date-executed: NA
governance-proposal-id: 41
---


## Overview

In [CIP 38](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-proposals/blob/master/CIPs/cip-0038.md), Granda Mento is specified as a mechanism to facilitate large CELO <-> stable token (e.g. cXXX) exchanges that aren't suitable via Mento or OTC. In Contract Release 5, a new contract is created, `GrandaMento.sol`, that implements CIP 38's specification.

This proposal sets the initial parameters for and effectively activates Granda Mento to facilitate cUSD and cEUR exchanges.

## Proposed Changes

There are a number of configurable parameters in `GrandaMento.sol`:

1. **`address public approver;`** - Has the authority to approve exchanges.
  * This is proposed to be a 4 of 7 multisig of community volunteers that are active within the Celo ecosystem. Like all configurable parameters, this multisig can be changed at a future point at the discretion of governance. The multisig has an address of `0xf10011424A0F35B8411e9abcF120eCF067E4CF27` and has the following signers:

| **Name**        | **Affiliation**                       | **Discord Handle**        | **Address**                                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Andrew Shen     | [Bi23 Labs](https://bi23.com/)        | `Shen \| Bi23 Labs #6675` | `0xBecc041a5090cD08AbD3940ab338d4CC94d2Ed3c` |
| Pinotio         | [Pinotio](https://pinotio.com/)       | `Pinotio.com #5357`       | `0x802FE32083fD341D8e9A35E3a351291d948a83E6` |
| Serge Kiema     | [DuniaPay](https://www.duniapay.net/) | `serge_duniapay #5152`    | `0xdcac99458a3c5957d8ae7b92e4bafc88a32b80e4` |
| Will Kraft      | Celo Governance Working Group         | `Will Kraft #2508`        | `0x169E992b3c4BE08c42582DAb1DCFb2549d9C23E1` |
| Zviad Metreveli | [WOTrust](https://wotrust.us/)        | `zm #1073`                | `0xE267D978037B89db06C6a5FcF82fAd8297E290ff` |
| human           | [OpenCelo](https://www.opencelo.org/) | `human #6811`             | `0x91f2437f5C8e7A3879e14a75a7C5b4CccC76023a` |
| Deepak Nuli     | [Kresko](https://www.kresko.fi/)      | `Deepak \| Kresko#3647`   | `0x099f3F5527671594351E30B48ca822cc90778a11` |

2. **`uint256 public vetoPeriodSeconds;`** - The minimum amount of time in seconds that must elapse between a proposed exchange being approved and when the exchange can be executed. Should give sufficient time for Governance to veto an approved exchange.
  * This is proposed to be 2 weeks (a value of `1209600` seconds).
  * The current governance parameters involve a 1 day approval stage and 1 week referendum stage. Two weeks is chosen to allow ample time to create a veto proposal and gather community feedback, while also balancing needs from exchangers. This delay also serves as friction, imposing an opportunity cost by locking capital to prevent exchangers from using Granda Mento for a means of arbitrage or trivial intents.
3. **`FixidityLib.Fraction public spread;`** - The percent fee imposed upon an exchange execution.
  * The proposed spread is 0% (a value of `0`).
  * Given the opportunity cost imposed upon exchangers when using Granda Mento, there is already a disincentive to use Granda Mento. Granda Mento requires sufficient friction while also being accessible compared to other stablecoin issuers at scale, such as USDC and USDT. USDT charges a [0.1% fee](https://tether.to/fees/); however they have much lower limits ($100k) and close to immediate redemption. USDC is [largely free](https://www.circle.com/en/pricing), with some fees associated with card and bank wire transactions, also with immediate redemption. Given this landscape of competing fees, the proposed spread is 0%.
4. **`FixidityLib.Fraction public maxApprovalExchangeRateChange;`** - The maximum change of the CELO price quoted in the stable token between the time an exchange proposal is created and the time the exchange proposal is approved by the approver.
  * This is proposed to be 50% (a value of `500000000000000000000000`).
  * The purpose of this parameter is twofold:
    * To protect the exchanger in a situation where the sell asset's price is locked in when it is very low, and the price has since risen substantially prior to approval.
    * To protect the reserve in a situation where the sell asset's price is locked in when it is very high, and the price has since fallen substantially prior to approval.
      * A similar situation could also occur in a long-range attack, where a proposal is intentionally created when the price of the sell asset is high, locking in the high price. Then, at a point when the price of the sell asset is lower, the proposer can bring the proposal to the community, hoping the community does not notice the high price.
  * Prior CELO price action was analyzed on Coinbase Pro to come to the 100% figure. Two examples of dramatic price action stand out:
    * A prominent example of CELO going from a high to low price:
      * May 16, 2021 (+0 days): high of $6.98 (-0%)
      * May 19, 2021 (+3 days): low of $3.70 (-47%)
      * May 20, 2021 (+4 days): low of $2.90 (-58%)
      * May 23, 2021 (+7 days): low of $2.48 (-64%)
    * A prominent example of CELO going from a low to a high price:
      * June 21, 2021 (+0 days): low of $1.65 (+0%)
      * June 24, 2021 (+3 days): high of $3.68 (+123%)
      * June 25, 2021 (+4 days): high of $4.70 (+184%)
      * June 28, 2021 (+7 days): high of $3.53 (+114%)
  * A value of 50% navigates ensuring a reasonably fair price for the exchange while being high enough to likely not impede "legitimate" exchange proposal approvals. More than anything, this is a safety check to ensure that an exchange proposal is not exceptionally undesirable. Assuming about a week between exchange proposal creation and approval, with rough consensus of approval for an exchange proposal achieved about 2 days before approval, it's likely that the price action will be obvious to both the community and exchanger, and they will behave accordingly. For example, in a situation where the sell asset's price has gone high to low, the community will likely ask for a new exchange proposal, and in a price that has gone low to high, or the exchanger will elect to re-create the exchange proposal at the better price. Any lower value runs the risk of a poor experience for the exchangers, who would have a higher risk of needing to resubmit their exchange proposals.
5. **`mapping(string => ExchangeLimits) stableTokenExchangeLimits`** - Set by Governance via `setStableTokenExchangeLimits`. A mapping of the stable token registry ID string to a struct containing two `uint256`s, `minExchangeAmount` and `maxExchangeAmount`.
  * For cUSD, the proposed limits are:
    * Minimum exchange amount: 500,000 cUSD (a value of `500000000000000000000000`)
    * Maximum exchange amount: 50,000,000 cUSD (a value of `50000000000000000000000000`)
  * For cEUR, the proposed limits are:
    * Minimum exchange amount: 400,000 cEUR (a value of `400000000000000000000000`)
    * Maximum exchange amount: 40,000,000 cEUR (a value of `40000000000000000000000000`)

Parameters 1 through 4 can be set when `GrandaMento.sol` is initialized in contract release 5. However, to avoid contentiousness of initialization values in contract release 5 that could instead be voted on in this governance proposal, parameters 1 through 4 will be initialized to zero values in contract release 5.

In addition, this proposal sets GrandaMento as an exchange spender of the Reserve, similar to the existing Exchange contracts for cUSD and cEUR. This is necessary for facilitating stable token -> CELO exchanges, which would purchase CELO from the reserve.

```
[
  {
    "contract": "GrandaMento",
    "function": "setApprover",
    "args": [
      "0xf10011424A0F35B8411e9abcF120eCF067E4CF27"
    ],
    "value":"0"
  },
  {
    "contract": "GrandaMento",
    "function": "setVetoPeriodSeconds",
    "args": [
      "1209600"
    ],
    "value":"0"
  },
  {
    "contract": "GrandaMento",
    "function": "setSpread",
    "args": [
      "0"
    ],
    "value":"0"
  },
  {
    "contract": "GrandaMento",
    "function": "setMaxApprovalExchangeRateChange",
    "args": [
      "500000000000000000000000"
    ],
    "value":"0"
  },
  {
    "contract": "GrandaMento",
    "function": "setStableTokenExchangeLimits",
    "args": [
      "StableToken",
      "500000000000000000000000",
      "50000000000000000000000000"
    ],
    "value":"0"
  },
  {
    "contract": "GrandaMento",
    "function": "setStableTokenExchangeLimits",
    "args": [
      "StableTokenEUR",
      "400000000000000000000000",
      "40000000000000000000000000"
    ],
    "value":"0"
  },
  {
    "contract": "Reserve",
    "function": "addExchangeSpender",
    "args": [
      "0x03f6842B82DD2C9276931A17dd23D73C16454a49"
    ],
    "value":"0"
  }
]
```

## Verification

### Verifying proposal contents

This governance proposal relies upon [CGP 37](cgp-0037.md), which is Contract Release 5 and has the on-chain proposal ID of 40. Because this governance proposal is proposed after CR5 but prior to CR5's governance proposal being executed, celocli's `governance:show` command needs to be told to first execute CR5 in order to parse this proposal's transactions in a user-friendly way. This is done using the `--afterExecutingID` flag and is only required if you are running the `governance:show` command prior to CR5 being executed, which requires celocli version `1.3.0` or greater. If the CR5 governance proposal has already been executed on-chain, the `--afterExecutingID` flag may be omitted.

```
celocli governance:show --node https://forno.celo.org --proposalID 41 --afterExecutingID 40
```

### Verifying the approver multisig

The approver multisig, [0xf10011424A0F35B8411e9abcF120eCF067E4CF27](https://explorer.celo.org/address/0xf10011424A0F35B8411e9abcF120eCF067E4CF27/transactions), is a proxy that points to a deployment of [MultiSig.sol](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/blob/67bb13bddb065719bf369c36ae0f95dd7653265a/packages/protocol/contracts/common/MultiSig.sol). Ownership of the proxy belongs to the proxy itself, which effectively means a quorum of multisig signers have the ability to change the implementation.

To verify the owner of the proxy is itself, read the proxy contract on the Celo explorer [here](https://explorer.celo.org/address/0xf10011424A0F35B8411e9abcF120eCF067E4CF27/read-contract) and confirm that `_getOwner` is its own address.

To find and view the source code of the implementation of the multisig, read the proxy contract on the Celo explorer [here](https://explorer.celo.org/address/0xf10011424A0F35B8411e9abcF120eCF067E4CF27/read-contract) and find `_getImplementation`, which should be `0xed68f8B11240249382478631bA0185473984aaf7`. The verified source code of the implementation can be found in the Celo explorer [here](https://explorer.celo.org/address/0xed68f8B11240249382478631bA0185473984aaf7/contracts).

There are two ways to verify the signers of the multisig. The first is to use the Celo explorer under the "View Proxy" tab of the proxy address, found [here](https://explorer.celo.org/address/0xf10011424A0F35B8411e9abcF120eCF067E4CF27/read-proxy). Alternatively, celocli can be used:

```
celocli multisig:show 0xf10011424A0F35B8411e9abcF120eCF067E4CF27 --node https://forno.celo.org
```

## Risks

It should be noted that the approver multisig is effectively self-governed due to two forms of self-ownership:

1. The implementation of the multisig used, [MultiSig.sol](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/blob/67bb13bddb065719bf369c36ae0f95dd7653265a/packages/protocol/contracts/common/MultiSig.sol), allows a quorum of signers to add, replace, remove, or change the number of signers required for a quorum. This has the nice property of allowing the multisig to easily handle signers losing or compromising their keys, but also the downside of allowing the signers to change important properties of the multisig without approval from governance.
2. The multisig is deployed using the proxy pattern, meaning state (like who the signers are, which transactions they vote on, etc) exists in a proxy contract that then executes implementation code at a different address. The proxy has an `owner`, which can change the implementation code if desired. The `owner` of the multisig proxy is itself, meaning that a quorum of signers can change the implementation of the multisig entirely.

While these risks are very important to be aware of, the design of Granda Mento involves the approver being a trusted multisig and governance retains the authority to change the approver.

Implementation risks:
* Activating Granda Mento for the first time in a production environment.
* Setting parameters and effectively activating Granda Mento in the same proposal leaves no room for reaction if the parameters are incorrect. However, this proposal will be ran on testnets prior to mainnet.
* Security practices around the multisig and the signers.
* Currently, the only moderately friendly UX for people looking to view on-chain Granda Mento state is via `celocli`. This may introduce risk that community members are not acutely aware of current on-chain state.

Economic risks:
* Enabling large volume exchanges of stable tokens -> CELO may result in a loss of stable token liquidity.
* Large volume exchanges of CELO -> stable token will lower the reserve ratio in the short term.
* Too high of a value of `maxApprovalExchangeRateChange` may expose the reserve to extra risk, and too low of a value may result in less favorable exchanges for exchangers.

## Useful Links

* [CIP 38 - Granda Mento](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-proposals/blob/master/CIPs/cip-0038.md)
* [CIP 38 Discussions](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-proposals/issues/229)
* [Forum post on Granda Mento](https://forum.celo.org/t/discussion-on-granda-mento-enabling-larger-stablecoin-mints/966)
