---
cgp: 116
title: Celo Ecosystem Liquidity Operation Guild (CELO-Guild)
date-created: 2024-01-20
author: "Henry He"
status: PROPOSED
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-ecosystem-liquidity-operation-guild-celo-guild-allocate-portion-of-celo-in-the-celo-community-fund-to-solve-liquidity-challenges-faced-by-celo-projects-and-accelerate-the-growth-of-the-celo-ecosystem/7243
governance-proposal-id: "TBD"
date-executed: "TBD"
---

## Abstract

Celo Ecosystem Liquidity Operation Guild (CELO-Guild) is established to achieve a mission to allocate a portion of CELO reserve returned by Mento Labs to the Celo Community Fund to solve the liquidity challenges faced by Celo projects and to accelerate the growth of the Celo ecosystem, [which was proposed as a solution to make a usage of the CELO returned](https://forum.celo.org/t/mento-reserve-returning-celo/5236/43). The CELO tokens will be administered by the "Double CELO-Guild Multisig" (referred to as DCGM), and will be deployed via Double, which will pair tokens from Celo projects, as liquidity on AMMs in the Celo ecosystem such as Uniswap v3. 

**DCGM should and must, after thorough research and due diligence, make final decisions regarding which AMM to deploy capital, which tokens to support, how much capital to deploy to support each project token, when to create and when to close a liquidity position, which price tik range to choose.** DCGM will focus on achieving strategic goals for the Celo community instead of financial returns, meaning that DCGM will support liquidity for Celo projects even though no interest from other sources of liquidity/capital that have financial return targets. 

Any token either natively issued on Celo or bridged onto Celo; either currently existing tokens or future tokens on Celo will be in scope to receive liquidity support from DCGM. **To prevent whales of Celo project tokens from dumping and draining the CELO liquidity, DCGM reserves the right to ask those whales to publicly commit NOT dumping on Celo Forum.** The initial projects requesting liquidity support are:
- Plastiks
- Flowcarbon
- EthicHub
- impactMarket
- Glo Dollar
- GoodDollar
- DeTrash Recy Network
- ImmortalX
- Mento Labs

This proposal requests disbursements of CELO from the Celo Community Fund in 4 stages (details below) with a cap at 10M CELO. **Stage #2, #3, #4 disbursements will be timelocked for 2 weeks during which Celo Governance can cancel the disbursements. It is the very first Celo governance proposal to enforce timelock for disbursements from Celo Community Fund.** DCGM will manage the operation for 2 years. At the end of the 2 years, unless voted otherwise by Celo governance, the operation will be closed orderly and from outstanding funds, up to the total amount of CELO disbursed from the Celo Community Fund will be returned back to the Celo Community Fund.

**As a highlight, unlike most other Celo governance proposals, especially many recent ones, this proposal will deploy CELO disbursed from Celo Community Fund into AMM pools via Double. This usage of CELO (indirectly Celo Community Fund) not only solves the liquidity challenges faced by Celo projects but also increases TVL in the Celo ecosystem. More importantly, this proposal plans to return the total amount of CELO disbursed, back to the Celo Community Fund.**

## Background

Liquidity challenge is a big pain point faced by all projects that have issued tokens or plan to issue tokens, either natively on Celo or bridged onto Celo. And the bear market makes things even worse for these projects as lots of liquidity has left the crypto market. To accelerate the growth of these projects and the whole Celo ecosystem, the Celo community really needs to take on the responsibility now to solve the liquidity challenge for those token projects.

Double is an AMM LP-side only DeFi innovation that adapts the widely used market making agreement model in CEX onto AMM, and as a result, it doubles ROI and significantly reduces impermanent loss for capital providers, while at the same time solving the liquidity challenge for token projects. Double recently [launched on Celo](https://twitter.com/double2winwin/status/1671545571734360065) and has formed partnerships with big Celo projects including [Valora](https://medium.com/@double2win/exciting-partnership-announcement-valora-x-double-b7b10116b601), [Mento](https://medium.com/@double2win/mento-labs-and-double-a-strategic-partnership-f9a958cdbde), [impactMarket](https://medium.com/impactmarket/impactmarket-and-double-join-forces-to-give-back-to-the-pact-community-3324f77057d5), [GoodDollar](https://medium.com/@double2win/partnership-announcement-double-gooddollar-unite-to-pioneer-the-future-of-sustainable-crypto-ubi-fcbb796afe41), [EthicHub](https://medium.com/@double2win/ethichub-and-double-join-forces-to-elevate-social-impact-investing-52b8378a532e).

By creating a virtuous (win-win-win) circle in the whole Celo ecosystem, Double not only empowers the Celo community to solve the liquidity challenge faced by token projects, but also creates a new external demand for CELO tokens and [a new earning opportunity for CELO holders to compound their holdings](https://forum.celo.org/t/celo-holders-new-earning-opportunity-to-earn-yields-get-rewards-and-contribute-the-growth-of-the-whole-celo-ecosystem/6344).

Previously, similar to the practice used by other chains, CELO tokens were given out for free to attract liquidity, which is extremely bad to the CELO price in the bear market. With Double, a permissionless and trustless DeFi primitive, the Celo community now can and should supply CELO tokens into Double as strategic capital to solve the liquidity challenge for Celo token projects, especially the ReFi projects.

To achieve the above goal, this governance proposal is to request a portion of the CELO reserve in the Celo Community Fund to be used as strategic capital, which will be managed by DCGM. Unlike most other Celo governance proposals, especially many recent ones, this proposal will deploy CELO disbursed from Celo Community Fund via Double, which will pair tokens from Celo projects, as liquidity on AMMs in the Celo ecosystem such as Uniswap v3.

This usage of CELO (indirectly Celo Community Fund) not only solves the liquidity challenges faced by Celo projects but also increases TVL in the Celo ecosystem. More importantly, this proposal plans to return the total amount of CELO disbursed back to the Celo Community Fund due to Double’s design to favor the capital provider side.

## Operation Details

**Multisig**: The DCGM will be responsible for managing the operation and deployment of CELO tokens. Supplying liquidity into AMMs is a complex operation ranging from which tokens to support, how much capital to deploy for each token, when to create and when to close a liquidity position. Hence it requires a solid team with right domain knowledge to make right decisions. The DCGM will initially consist of 4 team members/signers (any tx will require at least 2 signers)

- Henry He - Double
- Alex Witt - Partner at APF/Verda, ex-CFO at Celo Foundation
- Isha Varshney - Head of DeFi at Celo Foundation
- Nikhil Raghuveera - Founder at Heimdall, ex-Head of Strategy at Celo Foundation

**Communication Platform**: Any token either natively issued on Celo or bridged onto Celo; either currently existing tokens or future tokens on Celo, will be in scope to receive liquidity support from DCGM. Given Celo’s current focus on ReFi, it is expected that most CELO will be deployed to support ReFi projects including but limiting to Flowcharbon, impactMarket, GoodDollar, EthicHub, Plastiks, Toucan, etc. DCGM plans to use Celo Forum (will request a dedicated category) for projects to express their token liquidity support requests and for DCGM to communicate its decisions regarding CELO deployments in a public and transparent manner. DCGM commits to communicate its decisions in the public form first and wait at least 3 days before starting to execute the transactions. One additional benefit of communicating publicly is that other CELO holders can easily copy the liquidity positions taken by DCGM if they like. This will make it easier to attract other sources of capital as liquidity to support Celo token projects.

**Strategic Capital**: When making decisions to deploy CELO to support liquidity requests from Celo token projects, DCGM will factor strategic goals of the Celo community instead of solely based on financial returns. AMM LPing could be unprofitable or could not meet the return targets of financial capital. Hence when financial capital is not available to Celo token projects, the Celo community needs to step up to fill the void by supplying CELO as strategic capital to bootstrap the liquidity for Celo token projects, and gradually to attract financial capital to replace strategic capital eventually.

**Disbursement Schedule**: The CELO token requested from the Celo Community Fund will be disbursed in stages.

- Stage #1: 1M CELO
- Stage #2: 2M CELO
- Stage #3: 3M CELO
- Stage #4: 4M CELO

Stage #2, #3, #4 disbursements will be triggered when CELO tokens disbursed in previous stage(s) have been fully deployed. **Stage #2, #3, #4 disbursements will be timelocked for 2 weeks during which Celo Governance can cancel the disbursements. It is the very first Celo governance proposal to enforce timelock for disbursements from Celo Community Fund.**

Predicting the crypto market and planning the liquidity accordingly are super hard. This disbursement schedule design does factor the market dynamic prediction, liquidity request estimation, and the schedule for Celo’s transition to L2, but has the flexibility to support liquidity requests when big projects like Mento launch their tokens.

Of the 1M CELO disbursed in Stage #1, 0.5M CELO will be granted to Double to compensate its contributions and services for the next 2 years:

- Double will be in the core operator of the DCGM. It will engage Celo projects to assess their products, evaluate their liquidity requests, and make recommendations to DCGM to execute liquidity positions. It will also handle all communications with projects and the entire Celo community.

- Double will delegate its corporate DDC allocation to DCGM. DDC is a utility NFT token that is required to supply capital into Double. DCGM does not own any DDC and delegation from Double solves the problem. However, by delegating DDC to DCGM, Double will forfeit the benefits of using or delegating the same DDCs to other entities.

- Double will support and integrate with other and future AMMs launched on Celo such as Uniswap v4 Hooks. Supporting other AMMs, especially new types of AMM like Uniswap v4 requires significant R&D effort and investment.

- Double will maintain and update existing products including both front-end and back end smart contracts.

As a key Celo ecosystem project, Double has a strong desire to deepen its participation in and contributions to the Celo community, especially on helping Celo’s transition to CEL2! To achieve the goals, Double wants to become a validator in the existing Celo blockchain as well as in the upcoming CEL2. Double plans to use the grant of CELO tokens to participate in the validation service besides deploying CELO tokens via Double to support liquidity for Celo token projects.

**Different from most other Celo governance proposals to use Celo Community Fund, especially many recent ones, this proposal plans to return up to the total amount of CELO disbursed back to the Celo Community Fund at the end of the operation. As an illustration, if the Celo Community Fund disburses a total of 10M CELO during 4 stages, at the end of 2 years, the proposal plans to return up to 10M CELO back to the Celo Community Fund.**

**Profit Distribution**: It is quite likely that the DCGM operation will generate profit. At the end of the operation, after returning the total amount of CELO disbursed back to the Celo Community Fund, the remaining profit will be distributed as grants to fund Celo projects. For legal reasons, profit can NOT be returned to the Celo Community Fund. Projects to be considered for grants including a project that will develop smart contracts to replace the multisig that will make future similar operations more efficient, and other public goods work. Which projects to fund will be discussed at the time of closing the operation.

## Known Risks
The CELO tokens distributed from the Celo Community Fund will be used to interact with a DeFi protocol. Like any usage of CELO in any DeFi protocol, the CELO tokens are exposed to risk associated with interacting with smart contracts. However, Double smart contracts have been [audited by a professional auditor selected by Celo](https://0xmacro.com/library/audits/double-1).

It is well-known that supplying liquidity into AMMs also faces some financial risks such as market risk, impermanent loss risk, and could be unprofitable. This is exactly why financial capitals don’t like to take the risks sometimes and hence the Celo community needs to step up to fill the void by supplying CELO as strategic capital to bootstrap the liquidity for Celo token projects. Double has an innovation with [a novel design to make AMM LPing profitable](https://twitter.com/double2winwin/status/1695131765625721243) and DCGM expects to pay back the principal disbursed from the Celo Community Fund.

## Multisig Wallet
A Gnosis Safe Multisig wallet will be used to manage and deploy the funds with a required 2 of 4 approvals for transactions. The Multisig contract address is: 0xf559940652F887503eAC12F951bdd73bc5B9Bf0B, and can be found [here](https://app.safe.global/settings/setup?safe=celo:0xf559940652F887503eAC12F951bdd73bc5B9Bf0B). The initial signers on this multisig are:

- Henry He: 0x284B5e263a15798B677C3009df26D061C505f553
- Alex Witt: 0x1beB82703795B444eA63B8BD50cAe01d7Ce5e455
- Isha Varshney: 0xbed081c9C7cB13150A861714DD9f7E37805e5340
- Nikhil Raghuveera: 0x530CF34EE4977D375493D29Fb9cE194F138b4693

## Proposed Changes

```
[
  {
    "contract": "GoldToken",
    "function": "approve",
    "args": [
      "0xf559940652F887503eAC12F951bdd73bc5B9Bf0B",
      "1000000000000000000000000"
    ],
    "value": "0"
  }
  {
    "contract": "GoldToken",
    "function": "approve",
    "args": [
      "0x08740BfC4c597921DE895BA549B5CB4D3619da34",
      "9000000000000000000000000"
    ],
    "value": "0"
  }
]
```

## Verification

celocli governance:show --proposalID 155 --node https://forno.celo.org

Verify the on-chain proposal that 
1) the 1st destination address is 0xf559940652F887503eAC12F951bdd73bc5B9Bf0B (CELO-Guild Multisig), the amount is 1,000,000 CELO, equivalent to 1000000000000000000000000 or 1e24.
2) the 2nd destination address is 0x08740BfC4c597921DE895BA549B5CB4D3619da34 (Timelock contract address), the amount is 9,000,000 CELO, equivalent to 9000000000000000000000000 or 9e24.

Verify the Timelock contract [here](https://celoscan.io/address/0x08740bfc4c597921de895ba549b5cb4d3619da34#readContract) (source code [here](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/master/contracts/governance/TimelockController.sol)) that 1) the Celo Governance (0xD533Ca259b330c7A88f74E000a3FaEa2d63B7972) has the CANCELLER_ROLE and 2) the minDelay is 1209600 (60 * 60 * 24 * 14 = 2 weeks). 

To request stage #2, #3 #4 disbursements, CELO-Guild Multisig must propose a transaction in the Timelock contract to call "transferFrom()" in GoldToken contract. This transaction can't be executed within 2 weeks due to minDelay in Timelock contract and can be cancelled by Celo Governance.  

