---
cgp: 175
title: Introducing Celo Core Contracts Hotfix Security Council
date-created: 2025-03-12
author: cLabs Primitives Team
status: 'DRAFT'
discussions-to: https://forum.celo.org/t/proposing-celo-l2s-security-council
governance-proposal-id:
date-executed:
---

## Overview

The cLabs team proposes to update the hotfix approval mechanism to use the Security Council multisig. This will replace the previous system, which relied on a quorum of elected validators, with a more agile and secure governance layer for critical upgrades. This CGP aims to execute a governance transaction that adds the Security Council multisig address to the Celo Governance contract. This change will enable the new council to approve hotfixes as soon as the migration completes.

With Celo’s transition to an L2 architecture, we are also re-evaluating core governance mechanisms for responsiveness and security. The hotfix process is crucial for protecting the protocol against urgent vulnerabilities. The dedicated Security Council operating via a multisig wallet allows for faster response times and more flexible coordination, especially in high-severity scenarios.


## Proposed Changes

Proposed Change: Add the Security Council multisig address to the Governance contract to authorize the new Security Council to approve and execute hotfixes post-migration. The actual multisig deployment is planned for March 13, 2025, and its address will be finalized at that time.

1. Add the Security Council multisig address to the Celo Governance contract, aliased form the [L1](https://docs.optimism.io/connect/resources/glossary#address-aliasing).

- Destination: Governance
- Data: setSecurityCouncil(
    address _council = address(uint160(0x4092A77bAF58fef0309452cEaCb09221e556E112) + uint160(0x1111000000000000000000000000000000001111)) = `0x51a3a77baF58fef0309452CeaCB09221e556f223`
  )
- Value: 0

**NB: The actual address of the multisig contract will be finalized once the multisig contract has been deployed. This is expected to happen on 2025-03-13**

## Verification

Use the cli to check only the security 

## Risks

The Security Council must be trusted to act responsibly and only in emergency situations. Governance may need to revisit the multisig’s composition or powers if it becomes a centralization risk. Proper deployment and management of the multisig are critical to avoid misconfigurations or delays in future emergency actions.

## Useful Links

* Optional section
* Links to related CIPs or other documents (eg. if this is a proposal to point to a new instance of a smart contract that was updated)
